---
title 		: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2016 Volume 4  Service Pack 1  Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2016 Volume 4  Service Pack 1  Release Notes
platform 	: aspnet-core
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2016_vol_4_sp1 version=site.version.2016_vol_4_sp1 %} 





## Diagram

### Features
{:#diagram-features}

* Support to add lane dynamically at specified index is added.
## DocIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#165843 - List number preservation issue has been resolved while importing a particular Word document.
* \#167934 - `TextFormField` is now preserved properly while replacing a bookmark contents.
* \#168028 - IndexOutOfRangeException will no longer thrown while opening a particular DOCX format document.
* \#167568, \#167582 - NullReferenceException will no longer thrown while opening a particular DOCX format document.
* \#167600 - ArgumentException will no longer thrown while opening a particular DOCX format document.
* \#167568 - File is no longer corrupted while resaving a particular DOCX format document.
* \#166885 - StackOverflowException will no longer thrown while updating document fields for a particular Word document.
* \#167189 - IndexOutofRangeException will no longer thrown while retrieving the bookmark content.
## Grid

### Bug Fixes
{:#grid-bug-fixes}

* \#166248 - To exclude the corresponding field from "Grid Columns" property in AutoGenerate Grid, data annotation `BindNever` attribute can be used in ASP.NET Core which does the same functionality as `BindExclude` attribute performs in ASP.NET MVC.
## HeatMap

### Features
{:#heatmap-features}

* RTL Support for HeatMap and Legend Control is added.
## PDF

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

* \'PdfGrid' cells are now preserved properly based on the column span.
* \#166940- NullReferenceException is no longer be thrown while drawing text to the particular PDF document.
* \#168422- ArgumentOutOfRangeException is no longer thrown while drawing text in particular 'PdfLoadedDocument' instance.
* \# 165345, 168250- Form field values has been preserved properly while filling with large text. 
* \#168281- Syntax issue is no longer thrown in preflight with the particular PDF document created. 
* \#167608- Text is now preserved properly when flattening the form fields. 
* \#168228- Text positions are now properly preserved when flattening the form fields. 
* \#167014- ArgumentOutOfRangeException is no longer thrown while flattening the PDF form fields. 
* \#168225- Bookmark destination is now preserved properly while loading the PDF document.
* \#166308- Texts are now preserved properly while drawing using MS Mincho font.
* \#166940- Exception no longer occurs while drawing text to the particular PDF document.


## Predictive Analytics

### Features
{:#predictive-analytics-features}

* \#167299 - Added support to provide `localization` information using `CultureInfo` property in the `PMMLEvaluator` class.
## Presentation

### Features
{:#presentation-features}
* \#166068 - Added support to modify the .PPTM, .POTX and .POTM file formats.

### Breaking Changes
{:#presentation-breaking-changes}
* \#167997 - The property `InvertIfNegative` is now added into `IOfficeChartSerie` interface.

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}
* \#168870 - Bubble size is now updated properly in charts while creating the PowerPoint presentation.
* \#168101 - Data range will be now updated properly while adding data to an existing chart in a PowerPoint presentation.
* \#167717 - The application will no longer become unresponsive while opening a particular PowerPoint presentation with tables.


## Splitter

### Bug Fixes
{:#splitter-bug-fixes}

* \#126314 - Pane properties support provided for Splitter component.
## Spreadsheet `preview`

### Bug fixes
{:#spreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#168688 - Provided event for sheet rename and move sheet.
* \#168343 - Provided options to prevent alert dialogs.
* \#167734 - Provided undo redo support for custom operations.
* \#167734 - Provided event for refresh Spreadsheet.
* \#167077 - Provided options for getting chart ID.
* \#166544 - Provided support to drag fill formula for absolute and mixed cell references.
* \#169056 - Provided API for getting cell address in Spreadsheet.
## XlsIO

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#166572 - Issues with RTF text in Korean culture is fixed.
* \#166760 - Exception while parsing pivot cache definition is no longer thrown.
* \#166820 - Exception while parsing conditional formats with invalid formula is no longer thrown.
* \#167141 - File corruption issue while resaving a workbook with improper attribute has been fixed.
* \#167392 - Exception is no longer thrown while parsing Excel document with dialog sheets.
* \#167478 - Exception is no longer thrown while assigning value in Russian culture.
* \#167592 - Creation of duplicate cell value while assigning value to a single cell has been fixed.
* \#167735 - Corruption issue with shapes having multiple `=` characters is fixed.
* \#167754 - Moving ranges will also move comment shapes to proper location.
* \#167812 - Parse exception is no longer thrown while resaving Excel document with invalid named ranges in conditional formats.
* \#167857 - Not a legal OleAut date exception is no longer thrown while accessing display text with switching arguments in different cultures.
* \#167940 - Exception is no longer thrown while measuring size of an empty string in a cell. 
* \#168768 - Argument exception is no longer thrown while invoking `EnableSheetCalculations` twice.
* \#167944, \#167945 - Exception is no longer thrown while parsing a binary Excel document with invalid extended format index.
* \#168804 - Argument null exception is no longer thrown while applying template markers in different cultures.
