---
title 		: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2016 Volume 4  Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2016 Volume 4  Release Notes
platform 	: aspnet-core
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2016_vol_4 version=site.version.2016_vol_4 %} 





## Common

### Features
{:#common-features}

* Essential ASP.NET Core seamlessly compatible with VS2017

* \#162203 - Now Theme studio have the option to switch to the previous version, to customize the corresponding version`s themes.

### Bug Fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#166449 - Data Annotation now working properly in ASP.NET Core platform.

* \#165738 - Downloaded LESS and CSS files are from theme studio which was not generated properly henceforth, issue has been fixed.

## Signature `preview`

We have launched new control for capturing the digital signature with mouse and touch compatibility. The Signature control is used to capture or drawing the smooth signatures.


### Features
{:#signature-features}

* Signature captures signature as vector outlines of the strokes
* Using Signature we can customize the background, stroke width and stroke color. 
* Provided Undo, Redo & Clear options.
* Converts the captured signature into image format.
## Chart

### Bug Fixes
{:#chart-bug-fixes}
 
* \#166594 - Animation for line type series is now working properly for jQuery 3 and above version.
* \#165051 - Marker is now removed properly while the points in series are emptied.
* \#165243 - Radar chart is now rendering properly while enabling the marker.
* \#166453 - Zoom toolbar is now rendering properly in canvas mode.
* \#164589 - Zoom toolbar will not hide while enabling the `DataLabel` [`Template`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-marker-datalabel-template).

 
### Features
{:#chart-features}

* Provided support for drag and drop of points in chart. 
* \#160843 - Provided support for datetime category axis.  
* \#162320 - Provided an option to force the range for vertical axis of column type series to start from zero.​​​ By default the range will start from zero.
 


  


## Checkbox

### Bug Fixes
{:#checkbox-bug-fixes}

* \#162485 - Enhanced data binding (Strongly typed tag helper support) has been provided for Checkbox control.
## CircularGauge
 
### Bug Fixes
{:#circular-bug-fixes}
 
* \#165319  - Background color for half-circular gauge is now applied properly.



## DocIO

### Breaking Changes
{:#DocIO-breaking-changes}

* Default encoding is modified from UTF-8 with BOM to UTF-8 without BOM while saving text file using the method `Save(string fileName, FormatType.Txt)` of `WordDocument` class and it can be modified using existing public method `SaveTxt(string fileName, Encoding encoding)` of `WordDocument` class.
* Default encoding is modified from Windows Default (ANSI) without BOM to UTF-8 without BOM while saving text file using the method `Save(Stream stream, FormatType.Txt)` of `WordDocument` class and it can be modified using new public method `SaveTxt(Stream stream, Encoding encoding)` of `WordDocument` class.

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#161326 - WMF images are now preserved properly while import/export the DOC format document.
* \#162311 - Checkbox is now preserved properly while resaving a particular DOCX format document.
* \#163760 - ArgumentOutOfRangeException will no longer thrown while opening a particular RTF format document.
* \#165424 - Unicode characters are now preserved properly while resaving a particular RTF format document.
* \#163530 - EncoderFallbackException will no longer thrown while resaving a particular Word document as Text file.
* \#162545 - Track changes are now accepted properly for the particular DOCX format document.
* \#164220 - Empty paragraph is now preserved properly while resaving a particular Word document as HTML.
* \#164220 - Line spacing is now preserved properly while resaving a particular Word document as HTML.
* \#164782 - IndexOutOfRangeException will no longer thrown while disposing a particular Word document.
* \#165645 - Character spacing of text is now preserved properly while import/export a RTF document.
* \#165843 - List number is now preserved properly while clone and merge a particular Word document.
* \#164561 - `Page` and `NumPages` fields are now preserved properly while resaving a particular Word document.
* \#165820 - FormatException will no longer thrown while opening a particular RTF format document.
* \#165387, \#166451 - NullReferenceException will no longer thrown while executing Mail merge using `ExecuteNestedGroup()` method.
## Gantt

### Features
{:#gantt-features}

* \#164555 - Now support has been provided to render tasks with incorrect/empty parent IDs to the root level. 
* \#164024 - Now `TaskbarClick` event will be triggered while clicking the taskbars.
* \#166671 - Now it is possible to export the Gantt control to excel sheet.
* \#166335 - Provided support to update the resource data dynamically using setModel

## Kanban

### Features
{:#kanban-features}

* Support provided to change the unassigned swim lane key values with user defined keys.

## ListBox

### Features
{:#listbox-features}

* We have provided template support for ListBox with virtual scrolling using the newly added API `ItemHeight` to customize the items.
## ListView

### Features
{:#listview-features}

* We have provided localization support for ListView header text.
## Map

### Bug Fixes
{:#map-bug-fixes}
 
* \#163272  - Updating old markers with new markers are working properly while refreshing map.
 
 
## PDF

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

* \#158424 - Index was outside the bounds of the array exception is no longer thrown, while loading a PDF document.
* \#163906 - Adobe reader exception is no longer thrown, while drawing image in the PDF document.
* \#164832 - Can not find catalog information exception is no longer thrown while loading a PDF document.
* \#154150 - `PdfGrid` cells are now properly resized based on the row span.
* \#164859 - Application will never get hang while generating the PDF document in multi thread environment using `PdfTrueTypeFont`.
* \#165358 - NullReferenceException is no longer thrown while accessing file name in `PdfLoadedFileLinkAnnotation`.
* \#163307 - Layer value is now preserved properly while retrieving from the PDF loaded document.
* \#163309 - Font value is now preserved properly in the PDF loaded document.
* \#161409 - Form fields value are now preserved properly in extended feature enabled document.
* \#165258 - Size of the PDF document pages now preserving correctly when loading the PDF documents.
* \#165326 - ArgumentException is no longer thrown while saving `PdfLoadedDocument`.
* \#164884 - No more empty layers are added while getting PDF page layers.
* \#161409 - Form fields value has been preserved properly in extended feature enabled document.
* \#165345 - Form fields value has been preserved properly while appending the text in the PDF document.





## Predictive Analytics

### Bug Fixes
{:#predictive-analytics-bug-fixes}

* \#167087 - Resolved the PMML 4.2 version compatibility issues with Naive Bayes model evaluator.
## Presentation

### Features
{:#presentation-features}
* \#166430 - Added support to access and modify the rotation angle of a shape in PowerPoint slides.

### Breaking Changes
{:#presentation-breaking-changes}
* The property `Rotation` is now added into `IShape` interface.

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}
* \#166067 - The generated PowerPoint presentation will be no longer corrupted while adding or removing the Notes pages.
* \#160129 - Issues with adding multiple instances of OLE objects in a PowerPoint slide is now resolved.
* \#165072 - Issues in Clone and Merge functionalities are now resolved.
* \#164372 - Null reference exception will be no longer thrown while resaving the PowerPoint presentation with a cloned SmartArt diagram.
* \#162341 - Text formatting will be now preserved properly while merging two PowerPoint presentations.
* \#164372 - The merged PowerPoint presentation will be no longer corrupted while cloning the slides using `KeepSourceFormatting` option.

## RadioButton

### Bug Fixes
{:#radiobutton-bug-fixes}

* \#162485 - Enhanced data binding (Strongly typed tag helper support) has been provided for RadioButton control.
## Ribbon

### Features
{:#ribbon-features}

* On-demand rendering support provided for ribbon tabs and backstage.

## Schedule

### Features
{:#schedule-features}

* Month name(in short format) is displayed on the Schedule date header, when more than one month is rendered in the horizontal custom view.

### Breaking changes
{:#schedule-breaking-changes}

* \#166818 - Day column in the Agenda view is localized correctly now, while switching to different cultures.

## Splitter

### Bug fixes
{:#splitter-bug-fixes}

* \#F126314 - The issue on setting SplitPane properties from its tag helper has been fixed.

## Spreadsheet `preview`

### Features
{:#spreadsheet-features}

* Provided support for Excel-Like Pivot Table.

### Bug fixes
{:#spreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#163548 - Provided event for formula cells recalculation when updating its dependent cell value.
* \#165134 - Provided support for disable or enable resizing option in shape element(chart, picture).
## TimePicker

### Features
{:#timepicker-features}

* \#165411 - Now validation can be achieved in TimePicker using `ValidationRules` and `ValidationMessages` API.

## TreeGrid

### Features
{:#treegrid-features}

* \#161305 - Provided support for filtering data using filter menus.
* \#161198 - Provided support for rearranging the visible columns in TreeGrid.

### Bug Fixes
{:#treegrid-bug-fixes}
 
* \#166579 - Issue with `RowDragStop` event while canceling the event has been fixed.
* \#166690 - Toolbar renders with add and edit icons even when the toolbarItems array is empty has been fixed. 
* \#165100 - It is now possible to change column resize mode using `ColumnResizeSettings` property.
* \#166765 - Issue while changing self-referential data source via setModel has been fixed.

## TreeView

### Features
{:#treeview-features}

* \#157634 – Provided the option to highlight the full row of TreeView node in TreeView control.
## XlsIO

### Features
{:#xlsio-features}

* Support for advanced filter is provided.
* Support for comment in ODS export is provided.

### Breaking changes
{:#xlsio-breaking-changes}

* The method `AdvancedFilters` is now added in `IWorksheet` interface.
* The methods `SetPreviousBaseItem` and `SetNextBaseItem` are now added in `IPivotField` interface.

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#163654 - Argument out of range exception is no longer thrown when opening Excel document with shapes.
* \#163633 - Data validation and conditional formatting are properly updated in XLS format.
* \#163489 - File corruption issue while creating a document with single column sorting is resolved.
* \#163056 - Issue with improper relative hyperlink address is fixed.
* \#163490 - Issue with percent values for Top10 auto filters is fixed.
* \#165013 - Issues with cell merge and its text data while copying ranges are fixed.
* \#163802 - Issue with comment shapes while moving ranges is fixed.
* \#163473, \#165498 - File is no longer corrupted while setting `ShowDataFieldInRow` property to true.
* \#164435 - Circular reference exception thrown while moving a cell range is resolved. 
* \#164782, \#159383 - Not a legal OleAut date exception thrown while converting Excel document to PDF in Greek culture is fixed.
* \#163341, \#163474 - Issue with pivot filter types is fixed.
* \#161896 - Incorrect row height while merging the row with wrapped cells is fixed.
* \#154681 - Text formatting issues in chart elements like data label, title, legend and axis title are fixed.
* \#163882 - Issues with conditional formatting of `CFType` cell formula are fixed.
* \#165559 - Exception is no longer thrown on accessing formula values from conditional formats.
* \#163337 - Application hangs while opening Excel file with pivot table has been fixed.
* \#163560, \#166624 - Formulas updation issue after inserting rows has been fixed.
* \#157952 - Issue with removal of comments while moving a range has been fixed.
* \#164858 - Exception while saving a document by deleting a row with filter, is no longer thrown.
* \#164758 - File corruption issue while re-saving in German culture has been fixed.
* \#165805 - Looping issue while opening an Excel document with absolute anchored shapes has been fixed.
* \#166878 - Null reference exception is no longer thrown while copying empty cells to new workbook.

