---
title 		: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2016 Volume 3 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2016 Volume 3 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
platform 	: aspnet-core
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2016_vol_3_sp1 version=site.version.2016_vol_3_sp1 %} 





## DocIO

### Breaking Changes
{:#DocIO-breaking-changes}

* Default encoding is modified from UTF-8 with BOM to UTF-8 without BOM while saving text file using the method `Save(string fileName, FormatType.Txt)` of `WordDocument` class and it can be modified using existing public method `SaveTxt(string fileName, Encoding encoding)` of `WordDocument` class.
* Default encoding is modified from Windows Default (ANSI) without BOM to UTF-8 without BOM while saving text file using the method `Save(Stream stream, FormatType.Txt)` of `WordDocument` class and it can be modified using new public method `SaveTxt(Stream stream, Encoding encoding)` of `WordDocument` class.

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#161326 - WMF images are now preserved properly while import/export the DOC format document.
* \#162311 - Checkbox is now preserved properly while resaving a particular DOCX format document.
* \#163760 - ArgumentOutOfRangeException will no longer thrown while opening a particular RTF format document.
* \#165424 - Unicode characters are now preserved properly while resaving a particular RTF format document.
* \#163530 - EncoderFallbackException will no longer thrown while resaving a particular Word document as Text file.
* \#162545 - Track changes are now accepted properly for the particular DOCX format document.
* \#164220 - Empty paragraph is now preserved properly while resaving a particular Word document as HTML.
* \#164220 - Line spacing is now preserved properly while resaving a particular Word document as HTML.
## Presentation

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}
* \#164372 - The "Null Reference Exception" will be no longer thrown while resaving the PowerPoint presentation with a cloned SmartArt diagram.
* \#162341 - Text formatting will be now preserved properly while merging two PowerPoint presentations.
* \#164372 - The merged PowerPoint presentation will be no longer corrupted while cloning the slides using "KeepSourceFormatting" option.
## XlsIO

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#163654 - Argument out of range exception is no longer thrown when opening Excel document with shapes.
* \#163633 - Data validation and conditional formatting are properly updated in .xls format.
* \#163489 - File corruption issue while creating a document with single column sorting is resolved.
* \#163056 - Issue with improper relative hyperlink address is fixed.
* \#163490 - Issue with percent values for Top10 auto filters is fixed.
* \#165013 - Issues with cell merge and its text data while copying ranges are fixed.
* \#163802 - Issue with comment shapes while moving ranges is fixed.
* \#163473, \#165498 - File is no longer corrupted while setting `ShowDataFieldInRow` property to true.
* \#164435 - Circular reference exception thrown while moving a cell range is resolved. 
* \#163341, \#163474 - Issue with pivot filter types is fixed.
* \#161896 - Incorrect row height while merging the row with wrapped cells is fixed.
* \#154681 - Issues with text formatting in OfficeChart are fixed.
* \#163882 - Issues with conditional formatting of `CFType` cell formula are fixed.
* \#165559 - Exception is no longer thrown on accessing formula values from conditional formats.

