---
title 		: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2017 Volume 1  Service Pack 2  Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2017 Volume 1  Service Pack 2  Release Notes
platform 	: aspnet-core
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_1_sp2 version=site.version.2017_vol_1_sp2 %} 





## Autocomplete

### Bug Fixes
{:#autocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#171735 - Autocomplete e-multicolumnsettings tag helper rendering issue has been fixed.
## DocIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#173459, \#172942 - No longer hangs while opening a particular DOCX format document.
* \#173517 - Table right border is now preserved properly while saving the particular RTF format document.
* \#173567 - Custom properties result is now preserved properly while updating document fields for a particular Word document.
* \#174511 - Table border is now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as HTML.
* \#174834,  \#174894 - Table rows now preserved properly when accepting the track changes.
* \#174246 - NullReferenceException will no longer thrown while refreshing a chart element using DocIO.
## PDF

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

* \#173882 - The inner color of the ellipse and circle annotations are now preserving properly when flattening the annotation.
* \#174433 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when loading the PDF document
* \#172945 - Named destination is now supported when merging PDF documents.
* \#172848 - Preservation issues will not occur while flattening PDF form fields.
* \#170584 - File size is not increased when importing single page from the PDF document. 
* Exception will not occur when adding bookmark to larger PDF document. 

## Presentation

### Features
{:#presentation-features}
* \#168464 - Added support to create and modify comments in PowerPoint presentations

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}
* \#174113 - The merged PowerPoint presentation will no longer get corrupted while merging cloned slides from PowerPoint presentations
* \#173849, \#173493 - The merged PowerPoint presentation will no longer get corrupted while merging slides from different PowerPoint presentations 
* \#174190 - No more exceptions thrown while creating a new presentation by merging cloned slides from different PowerPoint presentations in multi-threading environment
* \#174295 - Replaced text in a PowerPoint presentation will be no longer marked as spelling error

## Schedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#schedule-bug-fixes}

* \#172103 - Appointments are rendering properly in Schedule, after performing CRUD operations.
## Spreadsheet

### Features
{:#spreadsheet-features}

* \#173262 - Provided support for excel export with chart and image.
## TreeGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#treegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#174384 - Now the `e-datamanager` tag helper is used for rendering data in TreeGrid using data manager.
## XlsIO

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#173466 - Exception while parsing Excel documents with invalid named range in charts has been fixed.
* \#175311 - Exception is no longer thrown while clearing ranges for empty worksheet.
* \#175311 - Exception is no longer thrown while adding external workbook with invalid named ranges.
* \#172529 - Issue with copying external formula string in `CopyTo` method is fixed.
* \#173735 - Issue with copying a cell value with hyperlink is fixed.
* \#173465 - Issue with spaces in hyperlinks is fixed.
* \#173893 - Formula with custom function is updated properly when named range is removed from workbook.
* \#173674 - Row insertion issue in Excel table with "Template Markers" is resolved.
* \#173808 - Data missing issue while re-saving an Excel document is resolved.
* Performance is improved while adding multiple text filters in filters collection.
* Exception is no longer thrown while opening a workbook with `ParseWorksheetsOnDemand` option.
* Exception is no longer thrown while opening Excel documents with invalid formula.
* Exception is no longer thrown while opening workbook with background images.
* Exception is no longer thrown while parsing external worksheets.
* Exception is no longer thrown while opening a workbook with chart using `ParseWorksheetsOnDemand` option.
* `CalculatedValue` now returns proper time value.
* Filters applied is no longer removed when sorting is applied to a filtered range.
* `TopVisibleRow` and `LeftVisibleColumn` are now applied properly.
* Issue with visibility of comments in binary files is fixed.
* Issue with RTF text in merged cells is fixed.
* Range intersection issue for multiple ranges is resolved.
