---
title 		: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2017 Volume 2  Service Pack 1  Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2017 Volume 2  Service Pack 1  Release Notes
platform 	: aspnet-core
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_2_sp1 version=site.version.2017_vol_2_sp1 %} 





## DocIO

### Features
{:#DocIO-features}
* \#177630 - Added support to preserve/insert SVG element in DOCX to DOCX file format conversion.
* \#178264 - Added support to apply multiple `Paragraph Style` in a single Paragraph while creating a Word document using DocIO.
* \#178022 - Added support for TextWatermark in DocIO.

### Breaking Changes
{:#DocIO-breaking-changes}
* The property `SvgData` was added to the interface `IWPicture`.
* The property `EnableStyleSeparator` was added to the interface `IWParagraph`.
* An overload method `AppendPicture` was added to the interface `IWParagraph`.

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#175961, \#179927, \#180418 - Image missing issue has been resolved while performing Mail merge execution.
* \#178271 - Extra page preservation issue has been resolved while loading the particular RTF format document.
* \#176369 - Doughnut chart title value retrieved properly while saving the particular Word document.
* \#177890 - Changing the color of a bar chart series is not applied for negative bar series values. 
* \#177890 - No longer hangs while opening a Word document which containing chart.
* \#176984 - Formula field results are preserved properly while bookmark has a special character.
* \#177064 - List number preservation issue has been resolved while saving the particular RTF format document.
* \#177586 - StackOverFlow Exception will no longer thrown while loading the particular RTF format document.
* \#176708 - KeyNotFoundException Exception will no longer thrown while loading the particular DOCX format document.
* \#179085 - Merge field values are preserved properly while performing Mail merge execution for a particular Word document using `Execute` method.
* \#179006 - Underline and Strikethrough is now preserved properly when append particular HTML file in Word document.
* \#177295 - Text retrieved properly from WTextFormField for a particular Word document.
* \#177679 - NullReferenceException Exception will no longer thrown while performing Mail merge execution using empty data table.
* \#165843, \#178727 - List number preservation issue has been resolved while importing particular Word document.
* \#177295 - `!Syntax Error Exception` will no longer preserved in the generated Word document for `SUM(ABOVE)` field. 
* \#176369 - ArgumentOutOfRangeException will no longer thrown while saving the Word document which containing chart.
* \#168877 - Content Control will be accessible to create/modify into the Word document. 
* \#171046 - MathML element is now preserved properly in DOCX to DOCX conversion.
* \#177380 - System.TypeInitialization exception will not be thrown while creating a Word document with chart.
## PDF

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

* The `PdfGrid` header is now preserving properly when enable the `AllowHorizontalOverflow`
* \#178247 - Internal stream of `PdfLoadedDocument` is now closing properly when calling the dispose method
* \#177646 - Unexpected token exception is no longer thrown while loading particular PDF document.
* \#178830 - Argument out of range exception is no longer thrown when accessing `PdfDocumentInformation` property in the particular PDF document.


## Predictive Analytics

### Bug Fixes
{:#predictive-analytics-bug-fixes}

* \#178661- Resolved issues with data fields transformation in RuleSet Model Evaluator.
## Presentation

### Features
{:#presentation-features}
* \#177630 - Added support to insert and modify SVG image in PowerPoint presentation.
* \#177587 - Added support to insert columns to a table in PowerPoint presentation.
* \#176530 - Added support to retrieve the target slide of a hyperlink in PowerPoint presentation

### Breaking Changes
{:#presentation-breaking-changes}
* \#176530 - The property `TargetSlide` was added to the interface `IHyperLink`.
* \#177630 - The property `SvgData` was added to the interface `IPicture`.
* \#177630 - An overload method for `AddPicture` was added to the interface `IPictures`.
* \#177630 - An overload method for `AddPicture` was added to the interface `IShapes`.
* \#177587 - The method `InsertColumn` was added to the interface `ITable`.
* \#177587 - The property `ColumnsCount` was added to the interface `ITable`.

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}
* \#178009 - Null reference exception will not be thrown while clearing and adding the slides in the PowerPoint presentation
* \#178672 - System.TypeInitialization exception will not be thrown while creating a PowerPoint presentation with charts

## TextBoxes

### Bug Fixes
{:#textboxes-bug-fixes}

* \#178984 - When set the watermark text as empty string, now it applied properly in Numeric, Currency and Percentage Textboxes.

## XlsIO

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#180466 - Exception is no longer thrown while opening chart with value axis title.
* \#181226 - Exception is no longer thrown while opening particular file with shape's offset value exceeding integer limit.
* \#180940 - Issue with font color when setting font style in conditional formats is fixed.
* \#181016 - Exception is no longer thrown while accessing `LineStyle` property of a shape in threading.
* \#178198 - Exception thrown on parsing the named range with complete file path is fixed.
* \#180478 - Issue with AutoFit when cell text contains line breaks is fixed.
* \#180329 - XML Exception is no longer thrown while parsing Excel file with chart having empty legend position.
* \#180337 - Line width is changed while changing series color for radar chart is fixed.
* \#180213 - Exception is thrown while parsing `MissingItemsLimit` property in pivot cache is resolved.
* \#179997 - Exception is no longer thrown while opening a chart with discontinuous filtered ranges.
* \#179874 - Default value is not set in Excel pivot table while applying Pivot filter is fixed.
* \#179874 - File corruption issue while applying pivot filter is resolved.
* \#179732 - File is no longer corrupted when table is created with merged cell ranges.
* \#181584 - Overflow exception while accessing `Value` property is fixed.
* \#179026 - Text is wrongly updated in shapes after add copying of worksheet is fixed.
* \#177928 - File size is not reduced after removing all worksheets is fixed.
* \#177314 - Security settings is enabled in portable platform for Excel 2003 file formats.
* Excel file with pivot table no longer gets corrupted during `AddCopy()`.
* Corruption issue when resaving Excel file with group shapes is fixed.

