---
title 		: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2016 Volume 4  Service Pack 1  Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2016 Volume 4  Service Pack 1  Release Notes
platform 	: aspnet-core
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_1 version=site.version.2017_vol_1 %} 





## Autocomplete

### Bug Fixes
{:#autocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#170935 - Issue with adding Name API for Autocomplete control have been fixed.
## Button

### Bug Fixes
{:#button-bug-fixes}

* \#128183 - Button font size has been increased when using it inside the accordion - Fixed.

## Chart

### Features
{:#chart-features}

* Provided support to render box and whisker series type.

## Common

### Features
{:#common-features}

* \#125950, \#163766, \#165088, \#166597, \#166883, \#169388, \#170526, \#170824 - Provided the ASP.NET Core support for specific .NET Framework version.

### Breaking Changes
{:#common-breaking-changes}

* From this release onwards, we have followed the naming standard to our Syncfusion assemblies like 15.1600.0.33. Previously we have followed assemblies version along  with “preview2-final”. Now you can utilize our assemblies with version  number alone.

### Known Issues
{:#known-issues}

* In VS2017, Razor Tag Helpers intellisense not working is a [known issue](https://github.com/aspnet/Tooling/blob/master/known-issues-vs2017.md#tag-helpers-do-not-work). Use [Razor Language Service extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-madsk.RazorLanguageServices) which helps to achieve the razor syntax intellisense support in the cshtml page.
## DateTimePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#datetimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#170935 - Now DateTimePicker's input field name can be initialized using `Name` API.

## Diagram

### Features
{:#diagram-features}

* \#157418,\#161103 - Hyperlink support for nodes and connectors is added.
* \#161002,\#162696,\#154120 - Support to export the diagram into image format with stretch option is provided.
* \#166357 - Support to export the diagram into multiple pages/images is added.
* \#143359,\#153194,\#153251 - Support to render the label in SVG layer is provided.
* \#168204 - ImageUrl support for context menu items is added.
* Overflow support for label is added.
## DocIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#165843 - List number preservation issue has been resolved while importing a particular Word document.
* \#167189 - IndexOutOfRangeException will no longer thrown while retrieving the bookmark contents.
* \#167568 - File is no longer corrupted while resaving a particular DOCX format document.
* \#167568, \#167582 - NullReferenceException will no longer thrown while opening a particular DOCX format document.
* \#167600 - ArgumentException will no longer thrown while opening a particular DOCX format document.
* \#167794, \#167934 - NullReferenceException will no longer thrown while replacing the bookmark contents.
* \#167831 - No longer hangs while updating table of contents for a particular HTML format document.
* \#167934 - `TextFormField` is now preserved properly while inserting a bookmark content using `ReplaceBookmarkContent` API.
* \#168028 - IndexOutOfRangeException will no longer thrown while opening a particular DOCX format document.
* \#168152 - ArgumentException will no longer thrown while inserting a chart in a particular Word document in ASP.NET Core platform.
* \#168166, \#169707 - Merge field values are now preserved properly while executing Mail merge using `ExecuteNestedGroup` method.
* \#168567, \#167794 - NullReferenceException no longer thrown while manipulating bookmarks using `BookmarksNavigator` API.
* \#169058 - No longer hangs while updating document fields for a particular Word document.
* \#169549 - Font size preservation issue has been resolved while replacing the text in a particular Word document.
* \#170696 - Nested table cell width preservation issue has been resolved while resaving a particular DOCX format document.
* \#171615 - FormatException will no longer thrown while opening a particular Word document.
## Grid

### Bug Fixes
{:#grid-bug-fixes}

* \#170015 - Provided support for `RowDropSettings` API in ASP.NET Core Tag Helpers.
* \#128149 - Added Filtering and Drag-and-Drop samples in ASP.NET Core.
* \#166248 - To exclude the corresponding field from Grid `Columns` property in AutoGenerate Grid, data annotation `BindNever` attribute can be used in ASP.NET Core which does the same functionality as `BindExclude` attribute performs in ASP.NET MVC.
## Kanban

### Features
{:#kanban-features}

* Responsiveness support improved for Tablet mode.

## MaskEdit

### Bug Fixes
{:#maskedit-bug-fixes}

* \#170935 - Name API was not working in MaskEdit control, issue has been fixed
## PDF

### Features
{:#pdf-features}
* \#169205 - Added support for accessing polygon annotation points.

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

* \`PdfGrid` cells are now preserved properly based on the column span.
* \#166940- NullReferenceException is no longer be thrown while drawing text to the particular PDF document.
* \#168422- ArgumentOutOfRangeException is no longer thrown while drawing text in particular `PdfLoadedDocument` instance.
* \# 165345, 168250- Form field values has been preserved properly while filling with large text. 
* \#168281- Syntax issue is no longer thrown in preflight with the particular PDF document created. 
* \#167608- Text is now preserved properly when flattening the form fields. 
* \#168228- Text positions are now properly preserved when flattening the form fields. 
* \#167014- ArgumentOutOfRangeException is no longer thrown while flattening the PDF form fields. 
* \#168225- Bookmark destination is now preserved properly while loading the PDF document.
* \#166308- Texts are now preserved properly while drawing using MS Mincho font.
* \#166940- Exception no longer occurs while drawing text to the particular PDF document.
* \#168743 - Exception will not be thrown when `ShowHeader` property is set to true in `PdfLightTable`
* \#168654 - Page reference will not be wrong in Text box field collection.
* \#168269 - Image will be visible properly in particular PDF page.
* \#168227 - Exception will not be thrown while flattening the Form fields.
* \#168762 - Text will be properly visible when drawn at 0,0 in PDF.
* \#170183 - `PdfAttachment` will not be null when loading the particular PDF document.
* \#170571 - Text will be properly wrapped in `PdfCell`.
* \#170953 - `PdfCode128Barcode` will accept special characters.
* \#171136 - Bookmarks will not have null destination while loading PDF document.
* \#171136 - Links will be preserved properly between bookmark and named destination.
* \#170126 - Chinese characters will be preserved properly when flattening the form fields
* \#170241 - PDF content will not be missed when load and save the particular document.

## Presentation

### Features
{:#presentation-features}
* \#166068 - Added support to modify the .PPTM, .POTX and .POTM file formats
* \#168251 - Added support to create and modify sections in PowerPoint presentations
* \#171169 - Added support to create and modify hyperlinks in PowerPoint presentations

### Breaking Changes
{:#presentation-breaking-changes}
* Clone method is moved from `ITable` interface to `ISlideItem` interface
* \#167997 - The property `InvertIfNegative` is now added into `IOfficeChartSerie` interface
* \#169437 - The property `NumberFormat` is now added into `IOfficeChartDataLabels` interface

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}
* \#168870 - Bubble size is now updated properly in charts while creating the PowerPoint presentations
* \#168101 - Data range will be now updated properly while adding data to an existing chart in a PowerPoint presentation
* \#167717 - The application will no longer become unresponsive while opening a particular PowerPoint presentation with tables
* \#171147 - The images are now replaced as expected in PowerPoint slides
* \#170852 - Invalid cast exception will be no longer thrown while opening the PowerPoint presentation with a handout master
* \#169437 - `NumberFormat` property is now added in `IOfficeChartDataLabels` interface to enable data label with a percentage symbol in charts
* \#169379 - PowerPoint presentation will no longer get corrupted while merging two PowerPoint presentations have same theme files
* \#170272 - Format exception will be no longer thrown while merging slides from one presentation to another presentation
## Ribbon

### Features
{:#ribbon-features}

* Backstage horizontal scrolling support provided.
* QAT independent support provided without mentioning in tab controls.

## Schedule

### Breaking Changes
{:#schedule-breakingchanges}

* To improve the performance of the Scheduler's initial rendering, we have changed the rendering order of the appointment window. Therefore, to customize the default appointment window - we suggest to provide the necessary customization codes within the `appointment-window-open` event instead of `create` event.

## Slider

### Breaking changes	
{:#slider-breaking-changes}

* In previous, the slider handle was out bound from the slider wrapper. Now based on the handle size, slider wrapper size extends up to the slider handle.
## Splitter

### Bug Fixes
{:#splitter-bug-fixes}

* \#126314 - Pane properties support provided for Splitter component.
## Spreadsheet

### Features
{:#spreadsheet-features}

* Provided support for freeze panes in virtualization.
* Provided support for Importing and Exporting.

### Breaking changes
{:#spreadsheet-breaking-changes}

*  [`freezePanes`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejspreadsheet#methods:xlfreeze-freezepanes) public method parameters are updated.
## Sunburst Chart `Preview`

{:#sunburstchart-feature}

A new Sunburst chart has been added for visualizing hierarchical data. The center circle represents the root level in the hierarchy, with outer circles representing higher levels of the hierarchy.

### Key Features

*	Visualize hierarchical data
*	Data label support for better readability
*	Interactively select or highlight segments.
*	Interactive legend
*	Colors can be customized

## TreeMap

### Features
{:#treemap-features}

* \#162007, \#166239, \#164857 - Provided support to bind the hierarchical data source to the tree map.

## XlsIO

### Features
{:#xlsio-features}

* Provided support to add HTML rich-text string in Excel cells.
* Provided support for OLE objects.

### Breaking changes
{:#xlsio-breaking-changes}

* The methods `Add` and `AddLink` are added in `IOleObject` interface.
* The property `HtmlString` is added in `IRange` interface.

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#166572 - Issues with RTF text in Korean culture is fixed.
* \#166760 - Exception while parsing pivot cache definition is no longer thrown.
* \#166820 - Exception while parsing conditional formats with invalid formula is no longer thrown.
* \#167141 - File corruption issue while resaving a workbook with improper attribute has been fixed.
* \#167392 - Exception is no longer thrown while parsing Excel document with dialog sheets.
* \#167478 - Exception is no longer thrown while assigning value in Russian culture.
* \#167592 - Creation of duplicate cell value while assigning value to a single cell has been fixed.
* \#167735 - Corruption issue with shapes having multiple "=" characters is fixed.
* \#167754 - Moving ranges will also move comment shapes to proper location.
* \#167812 - Parse exception is no longer thrown while resaving Excel document with invalid named ranges in conditional formats.
* \#167857 - Not a legal OleAut date exception is no longer thrown while accessing display text with switching arguments in different cultures.
* \#167940 - Exception is no longer thrown while measuring size of an empty string in a cell. 
* \#168768 - Argument exception is no longer thrown while invoking `EnableSheetCalculations` twice.
* \#168440 - Color issue in data points while converting 3D charts into image has been fixed.
* \#167944, \#167945 - Exception is no longer thrown while parsing a binary Excel document with invalid extended format index.
* \#168804 - Argument null exception is no longer thrown while applying template markers in different cultures.
* \#170164 - Application no longer hangs while saving empty worksheet as CSV.
* \#170017 - Dropdown is no longer deleted while resaving workbook twice.
* \#169558 - Changing font size will not alter CheckBox position.
* \#169650 - Application no longer hangs while parsing pivot chart extension list.
* \#168730 - Parsing Excel document with "$" in auto filter's address no longer throws exception.
* \#168996 - Overflow exception is no longer thrown while writing cell text with the string "infinity".
* \#168659 - Argument exception is no longer thrown while parsing external workbook address in binary format.
* \#168084 - Argument out of range exception is no longer thrown while deleting a row from `RowStorage`.
* \#170857 - Exception is no longer thrown while parsing shared strings relationship with end tag.
* \#170511 - Stack overflow exception is no longer thrown while parsing Excel document with not equal condition in filters.
* \#170647 - `RefersToRange` address with comma returns proper value.
* \#171107 - Integer variant type in custom document property is now serialized with valid tag.
* \#146066 - Copying charts from Excel 2013 documents will no longer be corrupted.
* \#163337 - Opening Excel document with pivot table element "AutoSortScope" no more hangs. 
* \#169861 - Auto fit of cells with date format no more throws exception.
* Issue with font color in migrant range has been fixed.
* Issue with improper 3D material values in charts has been fixed.
* Cloning workbook with 3D charts no more throws exception.
* Exception thrown while reading a cell with more than 7 digits as DateTime is fixed.

