---
title 		: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2017 Volume 3 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2017 Volume 3 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
platform 	: aspnet-core
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_3_sp1 version=site.version.2017_vol_3_sp1 %} 

Revised September 14, 2017 -  ASP.NET Core 2.0 support has been included.





## Common

### Features

* Microsoft ASP.NET Core 2.0 support has been added to the Essential ASP.NET Core components and sample browser.

### Known Issues

* Using model expressions within a rendering section throws the following error: 

> A local or parameter named '__model' cannot be declared in this scope because that name is used in an enclosing local scope to define a local or parameter.

* This is a known issue in ASP.NET Core 2.0 SDK [https://github.com/aspnet/Home/releases/tag/2.0.0](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/releases/tag/2.0.0).

* To overcome this known issue in your application refer this [documentation](https://help.syncfusion.com/aspnet-core/how-to) link.

## DocIO

### Breaking Changes
{:#DocIO-breaking-changes}
* `WordDocument.Background.Type` property will not return the value `NoBackground`, if show background in print layout view option is disabled and valid background is defined.  In this case make use of new property `WordDocument.Settings.DisplayBackgrounds` to check whether show background in print layout view option is enabled or disabled.

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#184513 - Formula fields are updated properly while calling UpdateDocumentFields() method.
* \#183656 - `NullReferenceException` will no longer thrown while closing a particular Word document.
* \#183819 - `NullReferenceException` will no longer thrown while setting WMergeField.FieldName property.
* \#184348 - `NullReferenceException` will no longer thrown while parsing Word document which contains shapes.
* \#183627 - Document background color is preserved properly while resaving a particular Word document.
* \#182050 - Page orientation will be preserved properly while resaving a particular Word document.
## Grid

### Features
{:#ejGrid-features}

*  \#182416, \#184765 - Provided support for multiple exporting in ASP.NET Core.
## NuGet

### Features
{:#nuget-features}

* Syncfusion ASP.NET Core NuGet packages support extended to latest release of ASP.NET Core 2.0.
## PDF

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

*	\#185884 - Empty page is not created, when merging particular PDF document.
*	\#185722 - PDF document with Adobe flash is now merging properly.
*	\#182001 - Form fields are not duplicated, when load and save the PDF document.
*	\#185460 - Attachment collection is not empty, when loading a particular PDF document.
*	\#185098 - Exception no longer occurs when merging particular PDF document.
*	\#184712 - The document keywords are not duplicated when using commas along with keyword.
*	\#184488 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when signing existing PDF document.
*	\#183595 - `ArgumentOutOfRange` exception is no longer occurs when importing pages from a particular PDF document.
*	\#182438 - Named destinations are now preserving properly, when adding to the existing PDF document.
*	\#182417 - Annotation are now removing properly from `PdfLoadedPage`.
* Signature fields are not duplicating when loading and saving the signed PDF.
* Form fields are not empty when loading and saving the PDF document.
* `PopUp` annotation is preserving properly after flattening.
## Presentation

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}

* \#184967 - `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` will not be thrown while cloning a PowerPoint slide with pie chart.
* \#182963 - `FontSize` property of `Font` class will now return the correct value.
* \#185237 - The shape name will be preserved like Microsoft PowerPoint, while creating new slide from an existing layout slide.
* \#185236 - The shapes in the footer will be preserved properly while creating new slide from an existing layout slide.
## Sample Creator

### Features
{:#sample-creator-features}

* \#186558 - Syncfusion ASP.NET Core Sample Creator support extended to latest version of ASP.NET Core 2.0. 
## TextBoxes

### Features
{:#textboxes-features}

* \#182613 - We have provided the option to allow the decimal places without any limit.

## TreeView

### Features
{:#treeview-features}

* \#184008 – Provided nested object support in TreeView fields. That helps to map the complex data from data source.

### Breaking Changes
{:#treeview-breaking-changes}

* \#182105 - In previous, when we pass a single node with a parentID and target to addNode method, the node will append to the parentID’s node and currently node will append in to the target.
## VS Extensions

### Features
{:#vs-extensions-features}

* \#186558 - Syncfusion ASP.NET Core Project Templates support extended to latest version of ASP.NET Core 2.0.
* \#186558 - Syncfusion ASP.NET Core Project Conversion and Migration support extended to latest version of ASP.NET Core 2.0. 
## XlsIO

### Breaking changes
{:#xlsio-breaking-changes}

* \#185530, 185561 - Exposed an API `Name` to get OLE object name in `IOleObject` class.

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#182915 - Issue with borders being cleared while merging cells is fixed.
* \#183016 - Issue with cell text casing while setting number format is fixed.
* \#183332 - Issue with conditional format is not preserved which has formula as another worksheet range, is fixed.
* \#183361 - Marker color gets changed on resave is fixed.
* \#183369 - Exception is no longer thrown on assigning the scatter chart category axis properties.
* \#183445 - Exception is no longer thrown while inserting rows in XLS format file.
* \#183738 - Performance issue while opening Excel file with multiple charts is fixed.
* \#183799 - Issue while setting print title rows for binary files is fixed.
* \#183807 - `CopyTo()` method is not working properly after applying AutoFilters is fixed.
* \#184328 - Exception is no longer thrown while applying data validation through `ListOfValues` property.
* \#184407 - Index out of range exception is thrown while setting RTF text is resolved.
* \#184407 - Key not found exception is thrown while setting RTF text is resolved.
* \#184540 - Binary Excel file gets corrupted while copying range with conditional formats is fixed.
* \#184569 - Cell value with comma character is changed while saving in CSV format is fixed.
* \#184894 - Exception is no longer thrown while adding `IconSet` multiple times.
* \#185139 - Argument exception is no longer thrown while coping worksheet with EMF images.
* \#185527 - Application hanging issue while opening the Excel file with table is resolved.
* \#184160 - Issue with incorrect margin values on resave is fixed.
* Sorting (descending order) is not working properly when filtering a column is fixed.
* Issue with copy and paste of formatted cells is fixed.
* Issue with `IsBestFit` property while accessing the `SetColumnWithPixes` method is fixed.
* Stack overflow exception is no longer thrown while accessing `RefersToRange` property.
* Argument exception is no longer thrown while copying one range to another range with styles.
* Argument exception is no longer thrown when sorting filtered numbers in descending order.
* The old and new cell values are validated on copy/paste through `ValueChanged` event.
* AutoFit is now proper when text in the input file contains line feed and wrap text is set to false.
* Performance issue in filtering when sheet has comments is fixed.
* Exception is no longer thrown when coping the defined names between different workbooks.
* Exception is no longer throw when cloning shape during `AddCopy()` method.
* Exception is no longer thrown while accessing table range using formula token.
* Calculated column formula is not updated during `AddCopy()` is fixed.
* Null reference exception is no longer thrown while serializing conditional formats during `AddCopy()`.
* Issue with `ColorRGB` in `Borders` is fixed.




