---
title 		: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2017 Volume 3 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2017 Volume 3 Release Notes
platform 	: aspnet-core
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_3 version=site.version.2017_vol_3 %} 





## Chart

### Features
{:#chart-features}

* \#140907, \#176526 - Provided support for rendering stacking spline area and 100% stacking spline area series types.
* \#142887, \#180953 - Provided support for rendering the inside and outside data labels in different colors. 
* \#175482 - Provided support to control the animation speed of the elements in the chart.
* Provided support for rendering various types of spline curves.

### Breaking changes
{:#chart-breaking-changes}

* Earlier, [`start`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-multilevellabels-start) and [`end`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-multilevellabels-end) properties in multi-level labels are of type **number**. Now we have changed this to **object**, so that it will take both number and DateTime values as input.

## DataManager

### Features
{:#datamanager-features}

* The DataManager now supports the WebAPI Batch operations like add, remove and change.The request for the operations are handled altogether at a time rather than being passed separately for each operation.
* The DataManager now allows to execute a query against a specific data source by using the QueryableDataOperations. It can perform the IQueryable<T> server side operation such as filtering, paging and sorting.

## Diagram

### Features

* \#131536, #150342, #161966, #173422 - Ruler support for diagram control is added.
* \#156753 - Support is provided to specify root node for layout.
* \#137249 - Support to hide the selection handles when it is overlapping with each other is added.
* \#154925 - Support to prevent the resizing of built-in shapes(children) available in the `BPMNNode` is added.
* \#165028, #169289 - Visual representation and performance of layout with multiple parents has been improved.
* \#176645 - Polyline support for diagram control is added.
* \#175928 - Support to update the label position based on nearest offset while dragging the label from connector is added.
* Support to remove the labels and ports at runtime is added.
* Support to drag the multiple selected nodes when click on the empty space of the selection rectangle is added.

### Breaking Changes

* Default value of PageSetting.ScrollLimit is changed from `Infinity` to `Diagram`.
* In earlier releases, while specifying the swimlane/lane's `Header` text as empty, default text value will be set to swimlane/lane. Now if it is left empty, header will not be visible.
## DocIO

### Features
{:#DocIO-features}
* \#177630 - Added support to insert and preserve SVG element in DOCX to DOCX conversion.
* \#178264 - Added support to apply multiple `Paragraph Style` in a single Paragraph while creating a Word document using DocIO.
* \#94498, \#116546, \#135202, \#168877, \#177412, \#179488, \#180451, \#167448, \#174699, \#128339, \#132232, \#147998, \#172223 - Added support to create and modify the content control in Word documents and map custom XML parts to content control. 


### Breaking Changes
{:#DocIO-breaking-changes}
* The property `SvgData` was added to the `IWPicture` interface.
* The property `EnableStyleSeparator` was added to the `IWParagraph` interface.
* An overload method `AppendPicture` was added to the `IWParagraph` interface.

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#175961, \#179927, \#180418 - Image missing issue has been resolved while performing Mail merge.
* \#178271 - Extra page preservation issue has been resolved while loading a particular RTF format document.
* \#176369 - Doughnut chart title value retrieved properly while saving a particular Word document.
* \#177890 - Changing the color of a bar chart series is not applied for negative bar series values. 
* \#177890 - No longer hangs while opening a Word document which contains chart.
* \#176984 - Formula field results are preserved properly while bookmark has a special character.
* \#177064 - List number preservation issue has been resolved while saving a particular RTF format document.
* \#177586 - `StackOverflowException` will be no longer thrown while loading a particular RTF format document.
* \#176708 - `KeyNotFoundException` will be no longer thrown while loading a particular DOCX format document.
* \#179085 - Merge field values are preserved properly while performing Mail merge for a particular Word document using `Execute` method.
* \#179006 - Underline and Strikethrough is now preserved properly while appending particular HTML file in a Word document.
* \#177295 - Text retrieved properly from `WTextFormField` instance for a particular Word document.
* \#177679 - `NullReferenceException` will be no longer thrown while performing Mail merge using empty data table.
* \#165843, \#178727 - List number preservation issue has been resolved while importing a particular Word document.
* \#177295 - `!Syntax Error` is now resolved for `SUM(ABOVE)` field, while updating fields in Word document. 
* \#176369 - `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` will be no longer thrown while saving a Word document which contains chart.
* \#171046 - `MathML` element is now preserved properly in DOCX to DOCX conversion.
* \#177380 - `System.TypeInitializationException` will be no longer thrown while creating a Word document with chart.
* \#180409 - Field results are preserved properly while performing Mail merge.
* \#180588 - German culture texts are preserved properly while importing and exporting a HTML document.
* \#180115 - List number is preserved properly while loading a RTF document.
* \#181317, \#180770 - `NullReferenceException` will be no longer thrown while resaving a Word document.
* \#181263 - Shape missing issue has been resolved while resaving a Word document.
* \#181811 - Bullet characters are preserved properly while resaving a particular RTF document.
* \#181118 - `InvalidOperationException` will be no longer thrown while getting bookmark contents.
* \#181409 - Chart series color preserved properly while resaving a Word document which contains chart.
* \#181263 - Shape preservation issue has been resolved while resaving a particular Word document.
* \#182249 - `MERGESEQ` number is preserved properly while performing Mail merge.
* \#180769 - Target file missing issue has been resolved while resaving a particular Word document.
* \#180769 - Update mode of OLE linked Excel worksheet is preserved properly while resaving a Word document.
## Kanban

### Features	
{:#kanban-features}

* Feature to show/hide the cards based on key value mapping. It can group the cards using key value and enables to toggle the display.

## PDF

### Features
{:#pdf-features} 

* Support for extracting the text from the PDF document has been provided.
* Support for finding a text from the PDF document has been provided.
* Added the support for digital signature. 
* Added the tagged PDF support with USDA 508 complaint.

### Breaking changes
{:#pdf-breaking-changes}
* Earlier, the `PdfLightTable` column width will not work as expected, as a result column widths are equally shared. Now this behavior is fixed, the specified width will be allocated for the columns.
* The property `Appearence` is marked as deprecated, please use `Appearance` property from `PdfSignature` class instead. 

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

* The `PdfGrid` header is now preserving properly when enable the `AllowHorizontalOverflow`.
* \#178247 - Internal stream of `PdfLoadedDocument` is now closing properly when calling the dispose method.
* \#177646 - Unexpected token exception is no longer thrown while loading particular PDF document.
* \#178830 - `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` is no longer thrown when accessing `PdfDocumentInformation` property in the particular PDF document.
* \#182338 - `args.Skip` will be working fine while PDF Grid row split across two pages.
* \#182896 - `PdfLightTable` columns will be preserve properly with manual width.
* \#180121 - The Barcode has been rendering  properly while giving ISO-8859-2 and ISO-8859-5 characters.
* \#179390 - `PdfLightTable` header will get draw only once when we set `ShowHeader` value is true.
* \#182001 - `NullReferenceException` no longer occurs when accessing the appearance of the signature in `PdfLoadedDocument`.
* \#178963,#181653,#182856 - Cannot access a closed stream object exception is no longer thrown while loading a PDF document.
* \#179731 - Annotations are now preserving properly while rotating the flattened annotation pages.
* The `PdfTextMarkupAnnotation` author property is now preserving properly.
* Fatal error exception is no longer occurs while loading the particular PDF document.
## PivotGrid

### Features
{:#pivotgrid-features}

* \#178102 - Load-on-demand support has been provided while performing drill down operation for relational data source.
* \#143812, #178298 - Paging support has been provided for relational data source.

## Predictive Analytics

### Features
{:#predictive-analytics-features}

* Added compatibility support for PMML version v4.3.
* Added support to pass input data as 'Stream' object in 'Table' class. 

### Bug fixes
{:#predictive-analytics-bug-fixes}

* \#178661- Resolved issues with data fields transformation in RuleSet Model Evaluator.

### Breaking changes
{:#predictive-analytics-breaking-changes}

* Renamed the assembly from "Syncfusion.PMML.Base" to "Syncfusion.PMML.Portable" for Predictive Analytics - ASP.NET Core platform.
## Presentation

### Features
{:#presentation-features}
* \#177630 - Added support to insert and modify SVG image in PowerPoint presentation.
* \#177587 - Added support to insert columns to a table in PowerPoint presentation.
* \#176530 - Added support to retrieve the target slide of a hyperlink in PowerPoint presentation.

### Breaking Changes
{:#presentation-breaking-changes}
* \#176530 - The property `TargetSlide` was added to the interface `IHyperLink`.
* \#177630 - The property `SvgData` was added to the interface `IPicture`.
* \#177630 - An overload method for `AddPicture` was added to the interface `IPictures`.
* \#177630 - An overload method for `AddPicture` was added to the interface `IShapes`.
* \#177587 - The method `InsertColumn` was added to the interface `ITable`.
* \#177587 - The property `ColumnsCount` was added to the interface `ITable`.

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}
* \#178672 - Type initialization exception will not be thrown while creating a PowerPoint presentation with charts.
* \#180902 - Argument out of range exception will not be thrown while cloning a PowerPoint slide with pie chart.
* \#179383 - Hyperlink path for another presentation can be now retrieved while loading a PowerPoint presentation.
* \#182353 - Null reference exception will not be thrown while cloning a PowerPoint slide with table.
* \#181902 - Null reference exception will not be thrown while resaving PowerPoint presentations contains internal XML files in custom naming standards.
* \#180904 - The chart data modified with Presentation library will not get reverted, while trying to edit in Microsoft PowerPoint application.
* \#182963 - The previous column formatting will be now preserved properly while inserting a new column in PowerPoint table.
* \#180902 - Null reference exception will not be thrown while cloning and merging slides having charts after disposing the parent PowerPoint presentation.
* \#178009 - Null reference exception will not be thrown while clearing and adding the slides in the PowerPoint presentation.
## RadialMenu

Provided ASP.NET Core support for RadialMenu control. It is a context that represents the menu items are arranged in a circular order with a centric button element in it.
## RadialSlider

### Features	
{:#radialslider-features}

* Provided globalization support for RadialSlider ticks and value. Enables to customize culture based values for the component.
## Ribbon

### Features	
{:#ribbon-features}

* \#178783 - Provided the `cssClass` API for Ribbon, to customize the control appearance.
## RichTextEditor

### Features
{:#rte-features}

* Rendering performance is now improved and is much better than earlier. The rendering of sub controls like Dialog, Color picker and Numeric textbox is done on demand, instead initial rendering.
## Sample Creator

### Features
{:#sample-creator-features}

* Included Radial Menu sample in ASP.NET Core Sample creator. 
## Schedule

### Features
{:#schedule-features}

* \#132062, \#132560 - Scheduler is now provided with an option to allow the user to create/edit the appointments inline, by single clicking on the cells/appointments. 
* \#176154 - While editing a recurrence appointment in series mode, to prevent the changes on the previously edited occurrences of this recurrence appointment - then `ignoreEditedOccurrences` argument can be set to true within the `beforeAppointmentChange` event function.
* Scheduler provides option to enable/disable the delete functionality of appointments through `allowDelete` API.
* Scheduler provides an additional option to edit/delete only the following occurrences of a recurrence appointment. 
* Scheduler provides option to drag and drop appointments from one week to another week, simply by holding the appointments either in the first or last date column for some specific delay time.

### Breaking changes
{:#schedule-breaking-changes}
* \#181307, \#183269 - Appointments are rendering correctly, when the current view has more than 100 appointments.
## Spreadsheet

### Features	
{:#spreadsheet-features}

* \#169150, 173569, 178299, 183197 - Provided support for chart with discontinuous range.

### Bug fixes
{:#spreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#180270 - Issue while importing with defined column width is fixed.

## TextBoxes

### Features
{:#textboxes-features}

* \#180057 - Provided the `positivePattern` support for NumericTextbox.

## Toolbar

### Features
{:#toolbar-features}

* Provided support for `Tab` key and `Shift+Tab` key to navigate through the toolbar items.

## TreeMap

### Features
{:#treemap-features}

* \#162905, \#162983, \#163226 - Provided support for customizing the drilldown grouping header and text overflow for labels.

## TreeView

### Features
{:#treeview-features}

* \#F126097 – Provided support to “get the updated data source via getTreeData() method when using remote data binding in TreeView control”.

## XlsIO

### Features
{:#xlsio-features}

* \#109496, #79552, #74319, #130146, #180064 - Password support is provided in Compression library.
* \#178228 - Support is provided for adding images from external link in Excel documents.
* \#163244, #F130797 - `AutoFit` support is provided in XlsIO portable library.
* Sorting support is provided in AutoFilters.
* Custom filtering support is provided in text filters.

### Breaking changes
{:#xlsio-breaking-changes}

* `DataSorter` property is added in the interfaces `IWorksheet` and `IAutoFilters`.
* `AutoFitRows()` and `AutoFitColumns()` are added in the interface `IRange` of portable library.
* `EnablePartialTrustCode` property is added in the interface `IApplication`.
* `AddPictureAsLink()` is added in the interface `IPictures`.
* `Picture` and `SvgData` properties are added in the interface IPictureShape.
* The values `Contains`, `DoesNotContain`, `BeginsWith`, `DoesNotBeginWith`, `EndsWith`, `DoesNotEndWith` are added in `ExcelFilterCondition` enumeration.

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#177888 - Exception is no longer thrown while opening a file with error value in named range.
* \#176158 - Opening an Excel document with picture will no longer get corrupted in Mac OS.
* \#178929 - Issue with wrong combo boxes count in an Excel document is fixed.
* \#178697 - Conditional formatting rules are now applied proper with priority.
* \#178368 - Custom number format ends with whitespace is preserved properly.
* \#176718 - DisplayText now returns number value for cell reference formulas.
* \#179055 - Exception is no longer thrown while saving XLS document to XLSX format with invalid named ranges.
* \#178577 - Exception is no longer thrown while opening an Excel document with empty relation in image hyperlink.
* \#179601 - Setting a pivot table row layout to tabular style and saving the document will no longer throw exception.
* \#179303 - Exception is no longer thrown while setting header text within the limit.
* \#175065 - Saving a workbook multiple times will no longer increase its file size.
* \#177928 - Removing worksheets will reduce the file size properly.
* \#178745 - Issue with changes in table formatting after resaving the document is fixed.
* \#177927 - Removing multiple worksheets and saving the document will no longer throw exception.
* \#177832 - License issue in XlsIO assembly has been resolved.
* \#177210 - Issue with wild card criteria search in Excel document is fixed.
* \#180466 - Exception is no longer thrown while opening chart with value axis title.
* \#181226 - Exception is no longer thrown while opening particular file with shape’s offset value exceeding integer limit.
* \#180940 - Issue with font color when setting font style in conditional formats is fixed.
* \#181016 - Exception is no longer thrown while accessing LineStyle property of a shape in threading.
* \#178198 - Exception thrown on parsing the named range with complete file path is fixed.
* \#180478 - Issue with AutoFit when cell text contains line breaks is fixed.
* \#180329 - XML Exception is no longer thrown while parsing Excel file with chart having empty legend position.
* \#180337 - Line width is changed while changing series color for radar chart is fixed.
* \#180213 - Exception is thrown while parsing `MissingItemsLimit` property in pivot cache is resolved.
* \#179997 - Exception is no longer thrown while opening a chart with discontinuous filtered ranges.
* \#179874 - Default value is not set in Excel pivot table while applying Pivot filter is fixed.
* \#179874 - File corruption issue while applying pivot filter is resolved.
* \#179732 - File is no longer corrupted when table is created with merged cell ranges.
* \#181584 - Overflow exception while accessing Value property is fixed.
* \#179026 - Text is wrongly updated in shapes after add copying of worksheet is fixed.
* \#177928 - File size is not reduced after removing all worksheets is fixed.
* \#177314 - Security settings is enabled in portable platform for Excel 2003 file formats.
* \#183388 - Memory leak issue due to CalcEngine not disabled on workbook dispose is fixed.
* \#183016 - Issue with text casing while setting number format is fixed.
* \#182853 - Performance issue while resaving Excel document with large number of named ranges is fixed.
* \#182915 - Cell contents are cleared on `Unmerge()` is fixed.
* \#182153 - Issue with setting incorrect `HasFormulaString` property is fixed.
* \#182422 - Exception is thrown while applying formula to a row due to wrong name index is fixed.
* \#163659 - An overload is now available to open a file with filename and encoding.
* \#182246, 182247 - Named index is now properly updated while copying external formulas using `CopyTo()`.
* \#182241 - External formulas will now be copied proper when destination workbook has formulas.
* \#181970 - Corruption issue while copying external formula is resolved.
* \#181715 - Conditional format formula is properly updated in binary Excel files.
* \#180478 - AutoFit is properly performed while invoking it multiple times for the range with line breaks.
* \#181802 - Exception is no longer thrown while resaving binary Excel file.
* \#181707 - Wrong file header exception while importing particular XML file is fixed.
* \#180842 - File with table formulas is no longer corrupted while resaving in Spanish culture.
* \#181183, 183446 - Wrong syntax error is thrown while performing layout operation in pivot table is fixed.
* \#181190 - Issue with worksheet `FindFirst()` for search values having pipe character is fixed.
* \#179749 - `RefersToRange` is null while named range is referring the table range is resolved.
* \#178735 - GDI exception thrown while opening an Excel document in Azure platform is resolved.
* \#181980 - Out of memory exception is no longer thrown while opening Excel document with wide filter range.
* \#181375 - Issue with font index is incorrectly updated while setting same font index for multiple times is fixed.
* \#182125 - Performance issue with applying styles in large number of cells is fixed.
* Excel file with pivot table no longer gets corrupted during AddCopy().
* Corruption issue when resaving Excel file with group shapes is fixed.
* Cell value with cross sheet reference formula will be updated properly.
* Sorting a range twice with same index will no longer throw exception.
* Exception is no longer thrown while copying worksheets with chart.
* Issue with improper print title values is fixed.
