---
title 		: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2017 Volume 2 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2017 Volume 2 Release Notes
platform 	: aspnet-core
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_2 version=site.version.2017_vol_2 %} 





## Common

### Features
{:#common-features}

* Now, ASP.NET Core Sample browser's support extended to latest release of Visual Studio 2017 15.1 of Microsoft. So now it will launch in all recent versions of Visual Studio 2017 (from VS2017 15.0 to VS2017 15.1)

### Breaking Changes
{:#common-breaking-changes}
 
* \#174965 -  The background-color of form editor controls in disabled state has been modified.
## Autocomplete

### Bug Fixes
{:#autocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#171735 - Autocomplete e-multicolumnsettings tag helper rendering issue has been fixed.
## Chart

### Features
{:#chart-features}

* \#146986 - Provided support for printing the chart.
* \#155396 - Provided support to place the axes elements outside the chart area, while crossing the axes.
* Provided support to render pie of pie series type.

## CheckBox

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejcheckbox-breaking-changes}

* The **ValidationMessage** of CheckBox has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **ValidationMessages** instead. 

## CircularGauge

### Features
{:#circulargauge-features}

* \#172258 - Provided legend support for representing the ranges in circular gauge. 

## DataManager

### Bug Fixes
{:#datamanager-bug-fixes}

* \#176975 "Data manager header not serialize properly" issue has been fixed.
## DatePicker

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejdatepicker-breaking-changes}

* The **ValidationMessage** of DatePicker has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **ValidationMessages** instead. 

## DateTimePicker

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejdatetimepicker-breaking-changes}

* The **ValidationMessage** of DateTimePicker has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **ValidationMessages** instead. 

## Diagram

### Features
{:#diagram-features}

* Template support for `labels` is added.
* Template support for `contextMenuItem` is added.
* \#161622 - Exporting the diagram with native node, event will be raised for native nodes which is used to draw the native node in application level on exporting.

## Dialog

### Features
{:#ejdialog-features}

* The Dialog provides an option to enable/disable browser scroll when we open the Modal Dialog.

### Breaking changes
{:#ejdialog-breaking-changes}

* Dialog position will be calculated based on the target or containment element.
## DocIO

### Breaking Changes
{:#DocIO-breaking-changes}

* Enumeration type of Equation(`EQ`) field is modified from `FieldFormula` to `FieldExpression` while opening an existing DOC format document.
* Enumeration type of Formula(`=`) field is modified from `FieldExpression` to `FieldFormula` while opening an existing DOC and DOCX format document.

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#171423 - ArgumentOutOfRangeException will no longer thrown while importing and resaving a particular Word document.
* \#171051,  \#173099 - File is no longer corrupted while resaving a particular DOCX format document.
* \#169663 - File size is now reduced while converting a Word document as RTF by enabling the `OptimizeRtfFileSize` property of `SaveOptions` class.
* \#171841 - Merge field number format preservation issue has been resolved while performing Mail merge execution.
* \#172854 - NullReferenceException will no longer thrown while using `FindSingleLine()` method in Multithreading.
* \#171100 - `Ref` field result is now preserved properly while updating document fields for a particular Word document.
* \#171613 - Marker color of the scatter chart is now preserved properly while resaving a DOCX format document.
* \#171423 - Data label of the chart is now preserved properly while resaving a particular DOCX format document.
* \#173459, \#172942 - No longer hangs while opening a particular DOCX format document.
* \#173517 - Table right border is now preserved properly while saving the particular RTF format document.
* \#173567 - Custom properties result is now preserved properly while updating document fields for a particular Word document.
* \#174511 - Table border is now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as HTML.
* \#174834,  \#174894 - Table rows now preserved properly when accepting the track changes.
* \#174246 - NullReferenceException will no longer thrown while refreshing a chart element.
* \#173628 - Chart with trendlines is now preserved properly while resaving a particular DOCX format document. 			
* \#174455 - Image missing issue has been resolved while resaving particular Word document.
* \#175132 - NullReferenceException will be no longer thrown while parsing the picture fill property of Chart element.
* \#174474, \#174954 ,\#174997 - ArgumentException will no longer thrown while saving the Word document which contains Chart element.
* \#175051 - ArgumentException will no longer thrown while opening a particular Word document.
* \#175731 - Page break will be preserved properly when accepting the track changes in the Word document.
* \#174174 - Table border preservation issue has been resolved while opening a particular DOC format document.
* \#176420 - File is no longer corrupted while using `ChartData.Clear()` method.
* \#173412, \#174055 - Performance has been improved while resaving a particular DOCX format document.
## Gantt

### Features
{:#gantt-features}

* \#172552, \#140878, \#149638, \#165417, \#136135, \#149804 - Support for displaying custom icons in toolbar has been implemented.
* \#170740 - Implemented the support for mapping the work field from data source.
* \#165100, \#171769 - Support for mapping the expand status of a record has been implemented.
* \#173616, \#174707, \#175548 - Method for updating the records dynamically has been implemented

### Bug Fixes
{:#gantt-bug-fixes}

* \#174715 - Issue while updating the datasource dynamically in Knockout has been fixed.
* \#174824 - Issue while adding a record in empty datasource in Knockout has been fixed.
* \#F129341 - Now the taskbar editing icons will be removed properly on disabling the `AllowGanttChartEditing` property dynamically.
* \#F129223 - Issue while updating the timescale mode in AngularJS has been fixed. 
## Grid

### Bug Fixes
{:#grid-bug-fixes}

* \#176444 – A duplicate row has been avoided while adding a new record in Grid

### Breaking changes
{:#grid-breaking-changes}

* Font family in Grid PDF Exporting is now changed to default font of corresponding Operating System.

## ListBox

### Features
{:#listbox-features}

* Provided sorting support to automatically sort the list items in alphabetical order.
* Cascade event provided to ListBox, which will be triggered before the cascaded data is populated.
## ListView

### Features
{:#listview-features}

* Provided virtual scrolling support to load data on demand without buffering huge data, it supports both normal and continuous mode.
## MaskEdit

### Bug Fixes
{:#maskedit-bug-fixes}

* \#175077- Unable to set the MaskEdit textbox value as HTML tag issue has been fixed.
* \#172733 – In form post back, browser auto fill values are not maintained properly issue has been fixed.

## PDF

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

* \#172260 - `PdfLightTable` cell customization is now preserving properly when disable the `AllowRowBreakAcrossPages`.
* \#172269 - Index out of range exception is no longer thrown when loading the PDF document.
* \#171703 - `PdfLightTable` headers are drawing only once when enable the `ShowHeader`.
* \#171857 - Form fields values are preserving properly when flattening the form fields.
* \#173882 - The inner color of the ellipse and circle annotations are now preserving properly when flattening the annotation.
* \#174433 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when loading the PDF document.
* \#172945 - Named destination is now supported when merging PDF documents.
* \#172848 - Preservation issues will not occur while flattening PDF form fields.
* \#170584 - File size is not increased when importing single page from the PDF document.
* \#176429 - `PdfTextWebLink` destination now works as expected for rotated PDF documents.
* \#173563 - PDF text box fonts are preserved properly when merging the PDF documents.
* \#176565 - Code 128 barcode will be generated without any unwanted characters.
* \#175857 - PDF document will no longer corrupted while merging the PDF documents.
* \#175375 - PDF document will no longer corrupted while drawing the image.
* \#175053 - Exception will not be thrown while loading the PDF document.
* \#175267 - Exception will not be thrown while loading a particular PDF document as byte array.
* \#175861 - QR barcode size will be generated properly with respect to the `XDimension`.
* \#175758 - ArgumentOutOfRange exception is no longer thrown when appending the particular document.
* \#175090 - Check box values are preserved properly while flattening the form fields.
* \#175090 - PDF document will no longer corrupted while applying flatten the form fields.
* \#175090 - Text box properties are now preserved properly while parsing the particular PDF document.
* \#174498 - Annotation bounds are now preserved properly while rotating the PDF document.
* \#175002 - PDF document will no longer corrupted while drawing a string in particular PDF document.
* \#174801 - Text colors are now restored properly when drawing with the same `PdfPen` multiple times using `PdfIccColor`.
* \#175020 - Exception no longer thrown while accessing the ForeColor of the `PdfFields`.
* The annotation bounds are now preserved properly while loading the PDF document.
* Null reference exception is no longer thrown while getting the annotation author and subject properties.
* Exception no longer thrown while getting the used fonts from particular PDF document.
* Exception will not occur when adding bookmark to larger PDF document.
## PivotChart

### Features
{:#pivotchart-features}

* 	Mondrian XML/A support for latest versions has been provided at Client Mode.

## PivotClient

### Features
{:#pivotclient-features}

*   Mondrian XML/A support for latest versions has been provided at Client Mode.



## PivotGauge

### Features
{:#pivotgauge-features}

*  Mondrian XML/A support for latest versions has been provided at Client Mode.
## PivotGrid

### Features
{:#pivotgrid-features}

*  Mondrian XML/A support for latest versions has been provided at Client Mode.


## Predictive Analytics

### Bug Fixes
{:#predictive-analytics-bug-fixes}

* \#173671- Resolved memory issue while loading large sized PMML file in PMML Evaluator.
## Presentation

### Features
{:#presentation-features}
* \#168464 - Added support to create and modify comments in PowerPoint presentations.
* \#176530 - Added support to create and modify hyperlinks for shapes in PowerPoint presentations.

### Breaking Changes
{:#presentation-breaking-changes}
* \#176530 - The property `Hyperlink` is now added into `IShape` interface.
* \#176530 - The method `SetHyperlink` is now added into `IShape` interface.
* \#176530 - The method `RemoveHyperlink` is now added into `IShape` interface.

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}

* \#170494 - The resaved PowerPoint presentation will be no longer corrupted while opening in Microsoft Office 2007.
* \#174113 - The merged PowerPoint presentation will no longer get corrupted while merging cloned slides from PowerPoint presentations.
* \#173849, \#173493 - The merged PowerPoint presentation will no longer get corrupted while merging slides from different PowerPoint presentations.
* \#174190 - No more exceptions thrown while creating a new presentation by merging cloned slides from different PowerPoint presentations in multi-threading environment.
* \#174295 - Replaced text in a PowerPoint presentation will be no longer marked as spelling error.

## RadioButton

### Bug Fixes
{:#radiobutton-bug-fixes}

* \#F128817 - Now RadioButton can be checked through `Checked` property at component initialization.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejradiobutton-breaking-changes}

* The **ValidationMessage** of RadioButton has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **ValidationMessages** instead. 

## RichTextEditor

### Breaking Changes
{:#richtexteditor-breaking-changes}

* In RTE, the paragraph tag (<p></p>) will maintain instead of empty content during initial render and even after clearing the whole content.

### Features
{:#rte-features}

* The RTE toolbar is responsive with inline & popup mode, previously toolbar supports popup mode.
* Responsive support for dialogs and footer in RTE.
* Integration of ColorPicker in RTE font and background color tool for custom colors and option for setting transparent background for RTE content.
* Support for removing unwanted elements and styles when we copy paste content from Microsoft Word document to RTE editor.

## Sample Creator

### Features
{:#vs-extensions-features}

* \#172118 - Provided Sample Creator support for ASP.NET Core platform. 
## Schedule

### Features
{:#schedule-features}

* \#135948, \#145839, \#129435 - Scheduler is now provided with an option to show/hide the weekend days in all views using the API `show-weekend`.
* \#173867 - Scheduler is now provided with an additional option to customize the appointment's dragging and resizing interval ranges.

### Bug Fixes
{:#schedule-bug-fixes}

* \#172103 - Appointments are rendering properly in Schedule, after performing CRUD operations.
## SplitButton

### Features
{:#splitbutton-features}

*  Class and Id based selector support provided for Target property of SplitButton.

## TimePicker

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejtimepicker-breaking-changes}

* The **ValidationMessage** of TimePicker has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **ValidationMessages** instead. 

## TreeGrid

### Features
{:#treegrid-features}

* \#172552, \#140878, \#149638, \#165417, \#136135, \#149804 – Support for displaying custom icons in toolbar has been implemented.
* \#170146 – Support for enabling/disabling a specific column in column chooser has been implemented.
* \#168705, \#139356 – Implemented the validations support for TreeGrid columns while editing and adding actions.
* \#165100, \#171769 – Support for mapping the expand status of a record has been implemented.
* \#158292, \#145064, \#161198 – Support for adaptive rendering in mobile environments has been implemented.
* \#155507, \#164231, \#165272, \#167015 – Support for dialog editing has been implemented.
* Row drag and drop performance has been improved with mouse interactions, mouse down delay for initializing the row drag has been removed.

### Bug Fixes
{:#treegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#172160 – Issue in exporting cell contents preceded with zeros in excel has been fixed.
* \#172082 – Issue with focusing drop down list on cell editing has been fixed.
* \#171840, \#172821 – Exporting issue with parent id value as string has been fixed. 
* \#172882 – Now TreeGrid columns can be rendered without mapping the field value.
* \#172821 - Now drag tooltip is removed properly while canceling the row drag action.
* \#177507 - Issue with `actionBegin` event arguments for column name while performing sorting has been fixed.
* \#177288 – Issue with drop down column filtering with onEnter filter bar mode has been fixed.
* \#176179 - Vertical scrollbar issue in TreeGrid with paged view has been fixed.
* \#176812 - Issue in row selected event arguments in TreeGrid has been fixed.
* \#176643 - TreeGrid filter menu style has been changed like in Grid.
* \#176539 - Issue in context menu custom theme in TreeGrid has been fixed.
* \#177970 - Now the TreeGrid model will no more overrides the window.model value.





## VS Extensions

### Features
{:#vs-extensions-features}

* \#174232 - Provided Project Templates support for ASP.NET Core platform.
* Provided Project Conversion and Migration support for ASP.NET Core platform.
## XlsIO

### Features
{:#xlsio-features}

* \#152955 - Provided table filters support for the types text, number and date.
* Provided custom sorting support in pivot table.

### Breaking changes
{:#xlsio-breaking-changes}

* The properties `Position` and `Text` are added in `IPivotFieldItem` interface.
* The properties `ShowAutoFilter` and `AutoFilters` are added in `IListObject` interface.
* The method `Sort` is added in `IPivotField` interface.
* The method `RemoveText` is added in `IAutoFilter` interface.


### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#171362 - Date format is maintained while importing data using Template Markers.
* \#171130 - Workbook protection password is maintained while re-saving Excel document.
* \#172188 - Exception thrown while parsing custom properties of Excel document has been resolved.
* \#172449 - Empty string can be assigned to workbook application name.
* \#172619 - Exception thrown while opening an Excel document with more than 32 characters in data validation title has been resolved.
* \#172767 - Exception thrown while opening an Excel document with numeric separators modified has been resolved.
* \#171513 - Applying standard height sets custom height to proper value in XLS document.
* \#95412 - Text rotation for chart axis is applied proper while creating charts.
* \#172748 - Date value "01/01/0001" is considered as string.
* \#171998 - File with empty space in table column header is no more corrupted.
* \#172562 - Data field is now applied proper in pivot table creation.
* \#173466 - Exception while parsing Excel documents with invalid named range in charts has been fixed.
* \#175311 - Exception is no longer thrown while clearing ranges for empty worksheet.
* \#175311 - Exception is no longer thrown while adding external workbook with invalid named ranges.
* \#172529 - Issue with copying external formula string in `CopyTo` method is fixed.
* \#173735 - Issue with copying a cell value with hyperlink is fixed.
* \#173465 - Issue with spaces in hyperlinks is fixed.
* \#173893 - Formula with custom function is updated properly when named range is removed from workbook.
* \#173674 - Row insertion issue in Excel table with "Template Markers" is resolved.
* \#173808 - Data missing issue while re-saving an Excel document is resolved.
* \#166942 - Issue with currency symbols displayed with quotation marks is resolved.
* \#170860 - Performance has been improved while closing a binary Excel document with filters.
* \#171034 - Issue with incorrect table formula while copying a worksheet is resolved.
* \#171130 - Issue with removal of hyperlinks in shapes while resaving Excel document is fixed.
* \#171418 - Number formats are now properly applied in Template Markers.
* \#173568 - Exception will no longer thrown while opening Excel documents with EMF image.
* \#175161 - Issue while accessing chart series with theme colors is fixed.
* \#175311 - Exception will no longer thrown while clearing range from an empty worksheet.
* \#175397 - Issue with incorrect value when a cell is calculated twice is fixed.
* \#175547 - Issue with chart shadow properties is fixed.
* \#175792 - `ListObjects` will now be removed while clearing worksheet data.
* \#175900 - External names are now added proper while copying ranges into another workbook.
* \#175902, 177524 - External names are now added proper while copying worksheets into another workbook.
* \#175941 - Issue with setting visibility to blank item in pivot field is fixed.
* \#176016 - Exception is no longer thrown while resaving Excel document with images from XLS to XLSX format.
* \#176311 - File no longer gets corrupted when rich-text is added with invalid characters.
* \#176381 - Issue with `SetWriteProtection` is resolved now.
* \#176959 - Formatting applied to entire row is now copied properly.
* \#177031 - Issue with collapsed state of button in pivot table is fixed.
* \#177187 - Exception is no longer thrown while adding conditional formats to `RangesCollection`.
* Performance is improved while adding multiple text filters in filters collection.
* Exception is no longer thrown while opening a workbook with `ParseWorksheetsOnDemand` option.
* Exception is no longer thrown while opening Excel documents with invalid formula.
* Exception is no longer thrown while opening workbook with background images.
* Exception is no longer thrown while parsing external worksheets.
* Exception is no longer thrown while opening a workbook with chart using `ParseWorksheetsOnDemand` option.
* Exception is no longer thrown while sorting columns with blank cells.
* Exception is no longer thrown while saving workbook with shapes after `AddCopy`.
* `CalculatedValue` now returns proper time value.
* Filters applied is no longer removed when sorting is applied to a filtered range.
* `TopVisibleRow` and `LeftVisibleColumn` are now applied properly.
* Issue with visibility of comments in binary files is fixed.
* Issue with RTF text in merged cells is fixed.
* Range intersection issue for multiple ranges is resolved.
* Issue with multiple filter range is now resolved.
* Sorting is now applied properly on hidden rows.
* Filter is now applied properly for an empty cell range similar to Microsoft Excel.
* Issue with freeze pane while setting `TopVisibleRow` is fixed.
* Rows are no longer hidden when Excel document with filters are opened and saved.
* Issues with cell border, font style and vertical scroll bar has been fixed.
