---
title : Essential Studio for ASP.NET 2018 Volume 1 Service Pack 2 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET 2018 Volume 1 Service Pack 2 Release Notes
platform : aspnet-core
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_1_sp2  version="v16.1.0.37" %} 





## Common

### Features
{:#common-features}

* #203559 - Content Template support for Razor syntax has been included. 

## Diagram

### Bug fixes
{:#diagram-bug-fixes}

* \#202552 - Exception raised while parsing the saved JSON string through `ParseModel` method is fixed.

## DocIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#198662 - Image is now preserved properly while merging DOC format documents and saving as DOCX format document.
* \#200715 - Ampersand symbol is now imported properly from a particular HTML file.
* \#200861 - The content control text is now preserved properly while converting a particular DOCX format document as RTF.
* \#201472 - File path is now shown properly in hyperlink which is created by using `AppendHyperlink` method.
* \#201937, \#202761 - `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` will be no longer thrown while performing Mail merge in a particular Word document.
* \#200702 - Alternative text for OLE Picture is now preserved properly while saving a particular DOCX format document.
* \#200882 - Decimal separator is now preserved properly while exporting a particular HTML file in machines with German culture.
## PDF

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

* \#201795, \#202536 - Exception will no longer be thrown while extracting text content from the provided PDF document in different culture settings. 



## Presentation

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}
* \#201506 - Used memory is now disposed properly after resaving the PowerPoint presentation with charts 
## Schedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#schedule-bug-fixes} 

*  \#201736 – Schedule can now be exported properly in PDF format, without any serialization issues.

## ejTreeView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#202119  - Issue with dragging a dynamically added nodes in TreeView has been fixed.

## XlsIO

### Features
{:#xlsio-features}
* \#201193 - Support is provided to retain formula references while removing and reattaching worksheets.

### Breaking Changes
{:#xlsio-breaking-changes}
* \#201193 - `UpdateSheetFormulaReference` is added in `IApplication` interface to ensure whether to remove worksheet reference in formulas on removing and reattaching the worksheet.

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#F136967 - Issue while parsing numeric cell value in Brazil culture is fixed.
* \#200508 - Pivot field sorting is incorrect while sorting month name is fixed.
* \#203029 - Issue with nullable properties not getting exported in Business Objects is fixed.
* \#201868 - ArgumentException raised while retrieving `UsedRange` for binary file is fixed.
* \#201968 - Issue while setting formula with IF function is fixed.
* \#200818 - File gets corrupted while setting numeric value for named ranges is resolved.
* \#201967 - Issue with percentage values in chart is fixed.
* \#201131 - Formula value is incorrect while parsing the workbook is fixed.
* \#201140 - Performance issue while opening excel file with charts is fixed.
* \#200629 - Need to skip the exception for null values in template marker.
* \#199992, \#202778, \#202886 - Issue with invalid formula in OfficeChart is fixed.
* \#201506 - Memory leak issue in OfficeChart is resolved.
* Issue with incorrect table formula value is fixed. 

