---
title: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core  2018 Volume 3 beta Release Notes (Beta)
description: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core  2018 Volume 3 beta Release Notes (Beta)
platform: aspnet-core
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Release Notes (Beta)

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_3_beta  version="v16.3.0.17" %} 

<style>
#license {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #def8ff;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px;
}
</style>

<div id="license">
Starting with version 16.2 (2018 Vol 2), you need to include a valid license key (either paid or trial key) within your applications. 
Please refer to this <a href="/common/essential-studio/licensing/license-key">help topic</a> for more information 
</div>






## Chart

### Bug fixes
{:#chart-bug-fixes}

* \#205762 - Now, chart will render properly, after binding to [`dataSource`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-datasource) with null value.
* \#207489 - [`axisLabelClick`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#events:axislabelclick) is now triggering when [`labelIntersectAction`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-labelintersectaction) is rotate45.
* \#210910 - Now, chart will render properly, after binding values to [`primaryYAxis`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryyaxis) through set model.
* \#212513 - Passing y values as string to [`dataSource`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-datasource) is now working properly.
## Diagram

### Features
{:#diagram-features}

* \#209242 - Gradient support for node border color is added.
* \#211102 - Support to avoid segment overlapping when executing the automatic tree layout with multiple parents is added.
## DocIO

### Features
{:#DocIO-features}

* \#205783, \#F138587 - Added `Rotation` property in `WPicture` class.
* \#209664 - Added the preservation support for signature line element in DOCX to DOCX conversion.
* \#112831, \#144687, \#166519, \#209732 - Added support to update `SectionPages` field in Word to PDF conversion.

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#209648 - Tab characters are preserved properly while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#204167, \#209881 - `InvalidOperationException` will be no longer thrown while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#204167, \#209881 - `IndexOutOfRangeException` will be no longer thrown while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#208660, \#206994, \#204167 - `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` will be no longer thrown while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#208268 - Paragraph spacing is now preserved properly when replacing content in table cell for Word document.
* \#F138091 - Table header is now preserved properly while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#207657 - Word document will be no longer corrupted when inserting image in Word document.
* \#208020 - paragraph spacing is preserved properly while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#208046 - Multi column is now preserved properly in Word Perfect Office Viewer while resaving Word document as RTF.
* \#207861 - Word document will be no longer corrupted in Microsoft Word 2007 application while resaving Word document.
* \#207772 - Image position is now preserved properly while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#207653 - Text shading is now preserved properly while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#207619, \#205309 - Table is now preserved properly while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#204167, \#209881 - Performance has been improved while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#204167, \#209881 - `StackOverflowException` will be no longer thrown while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#205919 - Image size is now preserved properly while converting Word document as RTF.
* \#206868 - Bookmark hyperlink is now navigated properly while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#206703, \#203618 - Word document will be no longer hangs while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#206993, \#203639 - `NullReferenceException` will be no longer thrown while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#206485 - Table splitting issue has been resolved while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#206496, \#205904 - Content control content is now preserved properly while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#206202, \#205099, \#208898, \#213761 - List number is now preserved properly while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#205329, \#209408, \#203051 - Word document will be no longer hangs while updating document fields in Word document.
* \#205631, \#205309 - Text wrapping issue has been resolved while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#205633 - `NullReferenceException` will be no longer thrown while parsing Word document.
* \#205309 - Table cell text preservation issue has been resolved while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#205309 - Table position issue has been resolved while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#205250 - `InvalidOperationException` will be no longer thrown while parsing RTF format document.
* \#205188 - `StackOverflowException` will be no longer thrown while updating document fields in Word document.
* \#202856 - TOC preservation issue has been resolved while converting Word document as HTML.
* \#204774 - `NullReferenceException` will be no longer thrown while deleting bookmark content in Word document.
* \#204774 - Bookmark content is now deleted properly in Word document.
* \#204542 - TextBox is now preserved properly while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#204342 - Paragraph spacing is now preserved properly while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#202253 - `OutOfMemoryException` will be no longer thrown while parsing Word document.
* \#180963, \#193566 - Font preservation issue has been resolved while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#208059 - `MAX` field is now properly skipped from updating error result while updating fields in Word document.
* \#209408 - If field result is now properly updated while updating document fields in Word document.
* \#208463 - Paragraph tags are properly created while converting Word document as PDF with accessibility.
* \#211412, \#212690 - `OutOfMemoryException` will be no longer thrown while performing Find & Replace functionality for Word document.
* \#210863, \#211412 - `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` will be no longer thrown while calling the `FindAll()` API for Word document.
* \#208450 - Table border is now preserved properly while converting RTF document as PDF.
* \#205945 - Word document will be no longer hangs while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#211046 - The nested `AutoNum` field is now properly skipped while updating its container field.
* \#208117 - Hanging issue has been resolved while updating fields in Word document.
* \#211709 - Style attribute is now preserved properly while converting Word document as HTML.
* \#210867 - List number is now restarted properly on importing contents with `ImportOptions` as `ListRestartNumbering` and saving the resultant document as DOC format.
* \#209964 - List style is now preserved properly for the first paragraph inserted to a bookmark using Bookmark Navigator.
* \#204947 - Text wrapping issue has been resolved while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#206374 - Content control content is now preserved properly while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#207193 - The first dot(.) character of a paragraph within a table containing decimal tab stop position is now automatically justified like tab (\t) character while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#208463, \#213468 - No more extra white spaces are added between the text while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#207687 - Reduced the generated PDF file size by skipping embedding fonts for non-Unicode text while performing Word to PDF conversion.
* \#211192 - External Workbook relation for chart is now preserved properly while resaving DOCX document.
* \#210694 - `System.ArgumentNullException` will be no longer thrown while converting Word document as PDF.
* \#209466 - `InvalidDataException` will be no longer thrown while parsing Word document.
* \#207009 - Text format is now preserved properly while performing Mail merge for Word document.
* \#210694 - `DOCVARIABLE` field name is now preserved properly while creating a field using AppendField() API.
* \#202856 - Tab and underline is now preserved properly in TOC while converting Word document as HTML.
## FileExplorer

### Features
{:#fileexplorer-features}

* \#F138123 - Support to download multiple files in zipped format.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

*  \#F138123 - In file explorer, issue with uploading the same file has been fixed.
## Gantt

### Features
{:#gantt-features}

* \#154668, \#188887 - The Gantt control now supports histogram view for resource allocation. User can track the resource allocation in the project using the resource histogram view.
* \#169548, \#194187, \#197377 - Now it is possible to display the unscheduled tasks in Gantt.
* \#208948, \#F138124 - Now it is possible to highlight the working time range and non-working time range in Gantt.
* \#206384 - In Gantt dialog, the resource tab and predecessor tab UI design has been optimized to improve user experience.
* \#205709 - Now it is possible to update the date value of the task which has task dependencies, using `updateRecordByTaskId` method.


### Bug Fixes
{:#gantt-bug-fixes}

* \#208330 - Now it is possible to use EJ2 context menu and EJ1 Gantt components in the same page without any issues.
* \#213487 - Issue in updating custom column values with `updateRecordByTaskId` method has been fixed.
* \#213037 - Alignment issue with Gantt timeline header has been fixed.
* \#208134 - Issue with custom fields in edit dialog of resource view in Gantt has been fixed.
* \#F138054 - Now it is possible to update the header format of the hour timescale dynamically without any issues.
* \#207114 - Issue in custom dropdown control in Gantt edit dialog with dropdown data as integer value has been fixed.
* \#206486, \#F137757 - Issue in exporting parent task with a milestone as child item has been fixed.
* \#212778 - Issue in PDF export with task dependencies and milestones enabled has been fixed.
* Issue in displaying tasks with duration value as `0` in resource view Gantt has been fixed.
## Kanban

### Features
{:#kanban-features}

*	\#189927, \#177568, \#203750, \#207002, \#F129307, \#F134895 - Provided support to change the swimlane header's row text based on `swimlaneKey` value mapping in swimlane `headers` . Also, provided support for show/hide empty swimlane in the Kanban board.
## ListBox

### Bug fixes
{:#listbox-bug-fixes}

* \#F138083 - Resolved the page scrolling issue which occurs on adding new items to listbox using `addItem` public method.
## Maps

### Features
{:#maps-features}

* Support has been provided to customize the data labels using properties.
## PDF

### Features
{:#pdf-features}

*	\#203690 - Support for adding Long Term Validation (LTV) with digital signature and timestamp.
*	\#209230 - Support for resizing the text box value based on its size.
*	\#209578 - Support for retrieving the custom metadata (columns) from PDF annotation.
*	\#205794 - Support for adding measurement annotations in the PDF document.
*	\#113882, \#114486, \#124312, \#124927, \#133647, \#136283, \#163372, \#174924, \#166856, \#199371, \#210727 - Support for drawing complex script language text in the PDF document.
*	\#203836 - Support for accessing PDF document hash to digitally sign the PDF document.
*	\#212579 - Support for time stamping the existing PDF document.
*	\#206510 - Support for getting annotation properties from the appearance content stream.
*	\#203836 - Support for changing the signature appearance based on the signature validation.

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

*	\#209067 - XML files are now importing properly as form fields.
*	\#209067 - Drop-down form fields are now exporting properly as XML files.
*	\#209809 - Unable to decrypt document without ID exception will no longer occur when decrypting the PDF documents.
*	\#209809 - Catalog is not present exception will no longer occur when loading the PDF documents.
*	\#209809, \#207003 - Password is incorrect exception will no longer occur when loading the PDF documents.
*	\#205727, \#199398 - URI value from `PdfLoadedUriAnnotation` is now retrieving properly from the PDF document.
*	\#205636 - "Index out of range exception" will no longer occur when loading the PDF documents.
*	\#206504 - Imported document size is not increased if the source document contains hyperlinks.
*	\#204160 - Content is now preserving properly when adding large text to a `PdfGrid` cell in landscape page.
*	\#206944 - PDF signature appearance is updating properly when using appearance graphics.
*	\#209484 - "Null reference exception" will no longer occur when accessing layer of the PDF document.
*	\#204266 - Incorrect layer behavior and syntax issues in Preflight when creating layers in the PDF document are now fixed.
*	\#207003 - "Index and length must refer to a location within the string" exception will no longer occur when loading the PDF documents.
*	\#206043 - The blank page will no longer be created when rotating the PDF documents.
*	\#205034 - Preservation issues will no longer occur when adding layers with overlay to PDF documents.
*	\#208125 - "Argument Out Of Range exception" will no longer occur when importing pages from the PDF documents.
*	\#206826 - All the form fields are now preserving properly when merging the PDF documents.
*	\#206864,209809 - Hanging issues will no longer occur when importing pages form the PDF documents.
*	\#208472 - PDF document corruption issue will no longer occur when merging the PDF documents.
*	\#209467 - "Object reference not set to an instance of an object" exception will no longer occur when loading the PDF document.
*	\#206344 - Text box fields are now preserving properly when flattening the PDF document.
*	\#207010,206810 - Null reference exception will no longer occur when appending the PDF documents.
*	\#204640 - "Can't convert to rectangle" exception will no longer occur when flattening the PDF documents.
*	\#210703 - Null value returns from the LinePoints property will no longer occur in PdfLine Annotation.
*	\#210779 - Null reference exception will no longer occur when filling the form fields in the PDF document.
*	\#210590 - Custom metadata set property are now properly working in the PDF document.
*	\#211089 - Appearance are now preserved properly for selected item in the PdfLoadedComboBoxField.
*   \#204693 - The orientation value set in the image properties is now detected and rendered properly when drawn to the PDF page.






## PivotGrid

### Features
{:#pivotgrid-features}

* \#194095 - Sorting support has been provided to order the members inside Member Editor.

## Presentation

### Features
{:#presentation-features}

* \#205041 - Added support to directly access the columns of a PowerPoint table.
* Added support for creating and editing slide transitions in PowerPoint presentation.

### Breaking Changes
{:#presentation-breaking-changes}

* Setter has been added to `Text` property of `ITextBody` interface.
* The property `Style` has been added to the `IPresentationChart` interface.

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}

* \#209550 - `ObjectReferenceException` will no longer be thrown while loading a PowerPoint document created with XMLPowerTools.
* \#211236 - Individual shape bounds within the group shapes are now updated to the properties while loading a PowerPoint document.
* \#205502 - Application will no longer hang while re-saving the PowerPoint presentation.
* `AccessViolationException` will no longer be thrown while re-saving a PowerPoint document with same file name.
* `StringFormatException` will no longer be thrown while creating animations in Afrikaans culture.
## RangeNavigator

### Features
{:#rangenavigator-features}
 
* Support has been provided to hide the intersecting labels.
* Support has been provided to include or exclude the first day of the next month in the selected data.
## ReportDesigner `Preview`

The report designer component for ASP.NET core platform allows users to create and edit RDL standard reports.

### Features
{:#ejreportdesigner-features}

* **Data sources**: Supports a wide range of data sources to explore data using connections to major data providers such as Microsoft SQL server, Oracle, OLEDB, and ODBC.

* **Report items**: Provides clear data visualization using report items such as built-in parameters, including charts, grids, pivot grids, subreports, textboxes, images, lines, and rectangles.

* **Report parameter**: Connects related reports and filters data in queries.

* **Image manager**: Supports managing embedded images in the report.

* **Property panel**: Allows users to view and modify configurations of selected report item.

* **Expression**: Built-in expression editor to create expressions with RDL standard to specify or calculate values for parameters, queries, filters, report item properties, groups, sorts, images, and dynamic page header and footer content.


## ReportViewer

### Features

* \#200518 - Provided support to load reports with modified report definition.
* \#209470 – Provided support to use custom code with external assemblies in ReportViewer.
* \#207364 - Provided support to render and export reports with external datasource.
* \#210391, 210055 - Provided complete can grow support using drawing libraries for ASP.Net Core.
* \#203061 - Provided ParameterHelper to create custom parameter in user application.


### Bug Fixes

* \#138473 - The header report item overlapping to body content in print preview has been resolved.
* \#210506, 210688 - Now, multiple nested grouping toggle exports properly to Excel when initial toggle state of a parent group is hidden.
* \#198150 - Now, child parameter values are updated properly when multi-valued parent parameter is changed.
* \#210648 - Incorrect resource text of reportviewer toolbar elements has been replaced with correct contents for Pt-BR culture.
* \#206918 - Rendering problem in PDF export when data region report item is used inside a rectangle has been resolved.
* \#209336 - Now, interactive sorting icon renders properly with tablix header when text alignment is right.

## TreeGrid

### Features
{:#treegrid-features}

* \#206811, \#212562 - Now it is possible to search records along with its parent record.
* \#188259, \#195994 - Batch edit and batch save support has been implemented in TreeGrid.

### Bug Fixes
{:#treegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#205681 - Issue in updating data source with total summary rows has been fixed.
* \#211707 - Issue with column resizing action in Firefox browser has been fixed.
## TreeView

### Features
{:#treeview-features}

* \#203297 - Provided an option to prevent parent node from expanding while adding a node in the tree view control.
## XlsIO

### Features
{:#xlsio-features}

* \#173702 - Provided support for hyperlinks in data import.
* \#52130, \#56162, \#135871, \#166296, \#178721, \#180457, \#180462, \#197799, \#198853 - Provided support to calculate external reference formula.
* \#180349 - Provided support for pivot table field sorting with direction.
* Provided support for custom qualifier and record delimiter for CSV files.
* \#135243, \#117497, \#131343 - Provided support for worksheet to HTML conversion from .NETStandard 1.4.
* \#135243, \#129497, \#206936, \#208400 - Provided support for worksheet to image conversion from .NETStandard 1.4.

### Breaking changes
{:#xlsio-breaking-changes}

* `Calculate` method is added in `IWorksheet` class to support worksheet formulas calculation.
* \#180349 - `AutoSort` method is added in `IPivotField` class.
* `CsvQualifier` and `CsvRecordDelimiter` properties are added in `IApplication` interface.
* `RemoveAt()` is added in `WorksheetNamesCollection` class to remove worksheet name at particular index.
* \#135243, \#129497, \#206936, \#208400 - Added `ExportImageOptions` class with `ExportImageFormat` enumeration, `Scaling mode` and default constructor, and `ConvertToImage` method in `IXlsIORenderer` class.

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#209729 - Null reference exception thrown while adding marker variable with copy style argument is resolved.
* \#209443 - Null reference exception thrown while copying empty worksheet range is resolved.
* \#209443 - Shape is not copied properly to another range while clearing range is fixed.
* \#208554 - Application exception ambiguity conflict between Microsoft Common Object Runtime Library. and Syncfusion.Compression NuGet package is resolved.
* \#207203 – Random exceptions on accessing the `RTFText` property multiple times is resolved.
* \#208141 - Exception thrown while converting the chart with range collection is resolved.
* \#208122 - Exception thrown while opening a file with empty RTF text is resolved.
* \#207732 - Argument exception thrown while opening a workbook of strict XML type is resolved.
* \#207940 - Null reference exception raised while invoking auto fit columns on cells containing formulas is resolved.
* \#207176, \#210642 - Issue with conditional formats on a newly created worksheet is fixed.
* \#207151 - Exception will no longer be thrown while saving the workbook created using `AddCopy()`.
* \#206271 - Corruption issue while resaving the file with query table is resolved.
* \#206070 - Formats are preserved correctly while saving XML file as XLSX.
* \#205858 - Table formula with column name in dimension format can be set properly.
* \#204815 - Exception raised while opening an Excel file having the style count greater than maximum unique styles is fixed.
* \#204483 - XML exception raised while opening a binary file with duplicate schema is resolved.
* \#204511 - `FindAll()` returns expected value when `ExcelFindOptions` is not provided.
* \#204932 - Exception raised while setting the `Fill` property for un-supported chart types on opening Excel file is resolved.
* \#204742 - Data connection parameters tag is now serialized while resaving an Excel file.
* \#204130, \#204484 - Exception thrown while parsing hyperlink in merged cells is resolved.
* \#203365 - Conditional formats are properly copied while adding a copy of worksheet using `AddCopy()`.
* \#203557 - File corruption issue while generating worksheet from the data table is resolved.
* \#203396 - File corruption while removing comments with picture from the worksheet is resolved.
* \#202487 - Exception will no longer be raised while parsing invalid reference to the chart series name.
* \#204134 - Incorrect chart name retrieved for the binary file is fixed.
* \#207784 - Exception raised while copying custom functions to a different workbook is resolved.
* \#205835 - Exception raised while cloning the workbook with conditional formats is resolved.
* Exception will no longer be thrown while applying template marker using the IWorksheet.Workbook property
* Auto filter issue while setting IconSet conditional formatting with NoIcon is resolved.
* \#211514 - NullReferenceException thrown while opening a file in multi-thread environment is fixed.
* \#210082 - Exception thrown while copying an Excel to another document with the named range and saving is resolved.
* \#210172 - Conditional format formulas applied to the `ConditionValue` property are now properly updated in advanced conditional formats.
* \#210172 - Image protection in XLS documents will not be removed after resave.
* \#209739 - Exception thrown while parsing workbook with empty styles is resolved.
* \#209443 - Merged cells are now properly copied to another range during `CopyTo()` method.
* \#138492 - Issue with `ListOfValues` property in Data Validation is fixed.
* Number formats are returned properly while parsing.
* Print area is cleared properly when `PrintArea` is set to null.
* Out of Memory exception thrown while parsing a CSV file with large number of rows is fixed.
* Issue with clearing Rich-Text and its formatting is resolved.
* \#212859 - Conditional formats are applied properly in an Excel file generation using XlsIO.
* \#211941 - Row height value in `GetRowHeightInPixels` is different than Microsoft Excel for a particular document is fixed.
* \#210905 - Styles are preserved properly while resaving the document in Microsoft Excel.
* \#207242 - ArgumentException raised while parsing duplicate number formats in the workbook is fixed.
* \#212951 - XML exception raised while opening an Excel document with invalid chart properties is resolved.
* \#213480 - Data labels formula is properly updated on changing sheet name.
* \#213242 - Title and border color are properly set for the cloned charts in XlsIO.
* Exception will no longer be thrown while creating GroupShape with VML shapes.
* Issue with row height while parsing XML file is fixed.
* Exception thrown while opening an Excel document in try catch block is resolved.
* NullReferenceException will no longer be thrown during AddCopy of binary Excel worksheets with XML Excel worksheets.
