---
title : Essential Studio for ASP.NET 2018 Volume 1 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET 2018 Volume 1 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
platform : aspnet-core
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_1_SP1  version="v16.1.0.32" %} 





## Chart

### Bug fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}
* \#196980 - Assigning the [`interval`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-range-interval) in `dateTimeCategory` axis is now working properly.
* \#197819 - Now, [`tooltip`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-tooltip) will be rendered properly for table elements.
* \#199607 - Now, [`zoom toolkit`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:zooming-toolbaritems) will be rendered properly while refreshing the chart.
* \#198412, 201293 - Now, chart will be rendered by using element’s both `id` and `class` names.
* \#199302 - [`Data labels`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-marker-datalabel) are now working properly without colliding each other in the accumulation series.
## Common

### Breaking Changes
{:#common-breaking-changes}

* #187805 - Syncfusion has provided separate NuGet packages for each .NET Framework version assembly till now. However, this has been changed from this release onwards and now each NuGet package will contain all applicable .NET Framework versions assemblies. Please refer this [Knowledge Base](https://www.syncfusion.com/kb/8614) article to learn more information about this change. 

## DataManager

### Features

{:#datamanager-features}

* We can now perform a case insensitive mapping for the columns type in Grid control.

## DocIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#197282 - `ArgumentException` will be no longer thrown while parsing a particular RTF document.
* \#199294 - The character and paragraph properties inherited from source document default formats are now properly imported to destination document.
* \#197763 - Picture effects are now preserved properly while merging a cloned Word document for multiple times.
* \#196839 - Paragraph with "None" list style type is now preserved properly while parsing a HTML format document.
* \#201256, \#201364 - Field code is now serialized properly within “instrText” element while opening and saving DOCX format document.
* \#198450, \#198489 - `FormatException` will be no longer thrown while opening and saving a particular DOCX format document.
* \#198653 - `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` will be no longer thrown while updating fields in a particular Word document.
* \#200254 - `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` will be no longer thrown while parsing a particular DOCX format document.
* \#198360 - `IndexOutOfRangeException` will be no longer thrown while opening and saving a particular Word document.
* \#200327 - Formatting of contents within textbox is now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as HTML.
* \#199782 - Font preservation issue has been resolved while converting a particular RTF document to Word document.
* \#199747 - No extra characters will be preserved while converting a Word document as RTF.
* \#198068 - Nested body contents are now preserved properly while parsing a particular Word document.
* \#200637 - `AccessViolationException` will be no longer thrown while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
## Gantt

### Features
{:#gantt-features}

* \#198401 - Now it is possible to enable/disable the automatic update of schedule date values in Gantt.
* \#198322 - The Gantt control now provides the support to filter column with multiple conditions dynamically.
* \#F135428 - The Gantt control now provides the support to update the data source dynamically in resource allocation view.


### Bug Fixes
{:#gantt-bug-fixes}

* \#200693 - Now the `RowSelected` event triggered properly on mouse click action.
* \#199049 - Issue with dependency tasks validation on manual taskbar editing has been fixed. 
* \#198369 - Auto focusing issues in Gantt on toolbar click action has been fixed.
* \#198543 - Task label overlapping issue in Gantt has been fixed.

## Grid


### Bug Fixes
{:#grid-bug-fixes} 

*  \#192114 - Grid exports with specified column width.

## PDF

### Features
{:#pdf-features}

*	\#199403,197452 - Support for adding annotation to the PDF Layers is added.

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

*	\#200302 - Improved the performance when importing the pages from the existing PDF document.
*	\#200680 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when altering the page label of existing PDF document.
*	\#200527 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when loading a PDF document with open and repair.
*	\#200438 - Same key has already been added exception no longer occurs when loading particular PDF document.
* 	\#199711 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when importing named destinations from the PDF document.
*	\#198565 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when merging the particular PDF documents.
* 	\#197635 - `An error was encountered while retrieving page content` exception no longer occurs when adding watermark to the existing PDF document in Adobe Acrobat Pro DC.
*	\#199398 - URI value from `PdfLoadedUriAnnotation` is now preserving properly when retrieving the PDF document.
*	\#199159 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when importing the pages from the particular PDF document.
*	\#198936,198057 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when merging the particular PDF documents.
*	\#198683 - Performance has been increased when loading particular PDF document.
*	\#198498 - Opacity is now properly applying to the flattened annotation.
*	\#198487 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when loading the particular PDF document.
*	\#198281,198759 - Signature is now valid while adding digital signature to the PDF document in different time zones.
*	\#194851 - Improved the performance while closing the PDF document.
*	\#196766,198057,196766 - The document size is optimized when importing the page from the particular document.
*	\#197077,198678 - `Cannot find the PDF catalog information` exception no longer occurs when loading the particular PDF document.
*	\#197123 - PDF form fields are now preserving properly when merging the PDF documents.
*	\#196643 - Improved the performance when loading the corrupted PDF documents.
*	\#196621 - Improved the performance when splitting a large PDF document.
*	\#194018 - `ArgumentException` is no longer occurs when flattening a PDF document.
*	\#199907 - The `PdfLoadedSignatureField` is now loading from the existing PDF document.


## Presentation

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}
* \#198361 - Images are now preserved properly while performing clone and merge in PowerPoint presentation.
* \#199566 - The URL associated with a hyperlink is now preserved properly while re-saving the PowerPoint presentation.
* \#199259 - Application will no longer hang while re-saving the PowerPoint presentation with SmartArt diagrams.
* \#196810 - PowerPoint presentation is no more corrupted while applying slide formatting options.
## Schedule

### Breaking changes
{:#schedule-breaking-changes}

* Revamped the timezone functionality to update the appointments in DB with zero UTC and also to fetch and render the appointments in proper duration. The existing users need to explicitly convert the start and end time to local time during initial appointments fetch up from database and assigning to Schedule dataSource. 

## TreeGrid

### Features
{:#treegrid-features}

* \#198322 - The TreeGrid control now provides the support to filter column with multiple conditions dynamically.
* \#195738 - Now it is possible to customize the detail template column width in TreeGrid.

### Bug Fixes
{:#treegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#197718 - Issue with column validation on row add action has been fixed.
* \#197216 – Alignment issue in frozen column with text wrap enabled mode has been fixed.


## XlsIO

### Features
{:#xlsio-features}
* Support is provided for Resize and Offset operations in IRange.

### Breaking Changes
{:#xlsio-breaking-changes}

* \#198134 - `FullFileName` property is added in `IWorkbook` interface.
* \#198663 , * \#198664 -` IRange` and `IWorkbook` interfaces are implemented with IEnumerable.
* `Resize()` and `Offset()` methods are added in ‘IRange’ interface.

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#200525 - Corruption issue while removing last row in a table is fixed.
* \#200090 - Space preservation issue while resaving a binary (XLS) file to xml format (XLSX) is fixed.
* \#198853 - Incremental formula is set properly for formulas with sheet reference.
* \#198385 - Legend color is not set when applied for entire legend collection is fixed.
* \#198849 - Column styles will be moved properly while inserting column in a worksheet.
* \#198858 - File with macros can be saved successfully without any corruption.
* \#198898 - Excel file with external formula reference in data validation can be opened without any exception.
* \#198785 - Find values within range accepts `ExcelFindType.Values` without any exception.
* \#198289 - Performance issue while opening Excel file with data validation applied on large range is resolved.
* \#198385 - Issue with chart axis font color for binary file is fixed.
* \#158298 - Month and day columns in pivot table can be sorted properly.
* \#195255 - Performance issue while closing the workbook is fixed.
* \#197896 - Filter icon visibility issue in merged column header is fixed.
* \#197903 - Number formats are preserved correctly without any addition of extra slashes.
* \#198277 - Exception raised while opening the Excel file with date cell type is resolved.
* \#197711 - Exception thrown while saving an XML file having default parent style index to XLSX format is resolved.
* \#197433 - Issue with row height value when changing the system resolution is resolved.
* \#197106 - Calculated field can be added to more than one pivot table without any file corruption.
* \#196836 - Object reference exception when worksheet has custom property set to null is resolved.
* \#196955 - Chart font color settings are applied properly in chart elements.
* \#158298 – Issue with pivot table field sorting when sort field items are less than the field item count is fixed.
* \#196737 - Worksheet header image can be replaced properly without any variation in image size.
* \#196502 - Exception while opening an excel fie with empty fill tag is resolved.
* \#191260 , * \#196173 - Used range is properly updated while layouting a pivot table.
* \#196117 - Issue with hyperlink added to a cell after adding shape hyperlink is fixed.
* \#198472 - Exception while opening the Excel file with unknown named color in ASP.NET Core platform is resolved.
* \#195137 , * \#196893 - Column text contains DateTime formatted values instead of Date values is fixed.
* \#198849 - Cell data validation is removed properly while copying empty cells.
* Corruption issue is resolved while copying tables with same name by AddCopy().
* Performance issue while copying entire column to another range is resolved.
* Conditional formats are removed from destination range while copying is fixed.
* Worksheet unused columns are not collapsed in Google Sheets.
* Exception is no longer thrown while copying tables to existing table ranges.
* Exception while opening Excel file with DDE link formula is resolved.
* Fixed various issues in `CopyTo()` and `AddCopy()` of tables, formulae, ranges, shapes and worksheets.
* AutoShapes are not re-positioned properly after moving to same or different worksheet using `CopyTo()` is fixed.

