---
title : Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2018 Volume 2 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2018 Volume 2 Release Notes
platform : aspnet-core
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_2  version="v16.2.0.41" %} 

<style>
#license {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #def8ff;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px;
}
</style>

<div id="license">
Starting with version 16.2 (2018 Vol 2), you need to include a valid license key (either paid or trial key) within your applications. 
Please refer to this <a href="/common/essential-studio/licensing/license-key">help topic</a> for more information   
</div>






## Chart

### Features
{:#chart-features}

* \#199758 - RTL support has been provided for legend, tooltip, and zooming toolkit in chart.
* \#F135203 - Support has been provided to rotate axis label with the text anchor as start.

### Bug fixes
{:#chart-bug-fixes}

* \#196980 - Assigning the [`interval`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-range-interval) in `dateTimeCategory` axis is now working properly.
* \#197819 - Now, [`tooltip`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-tooltip) will be rendered properly for table elements.
* \#199607 - Now, [`zoom toolkit`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:zooming-toolbaritems) will be rendered properly while refreshing the chart.
* \#198412, 201293 - Now, chart will be rendered by using element’s both `id` and `class` names.
* \#199302 - [`Data labels`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-marker-datalabel) are now working properly without colliding each other in the accumulation series.
* \#198412, 201293 - Now, chart will be rendered by using element’s both `id` and `class` names.
* \#136995 - Now, column chart will render properly while setting series [`type`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-type) in pascal case.
* Now, chart will be render properly, when the [`size`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:size) is 99% of parent container.
## DataManager

### Features

{:#datamanager-features}

* We can now perform a case insensitive mapping for the columns type in Grid control.
* We can now enable or disable AJAX caching via `enableAjaxCache` API in the DataManager control. 

## Diagram

### Bug fixes
{:#diagram-bug-fixes}

* \#202552 - Exception raised while parsing the saved JSON string through DiagramProperties `ParseModel` method is fixed.

### Features
{:#diagram-features}

 * \#125463, 125593, 133145, 126648, 142340, 147493, 157092, 167300, 172181, 176433, 178583 - Support to automatically re-route the line around the nodes if any nodes is found in between line is added.
## DocIO

### Features
{:#DocIO-features}

* \#197650, \#198520, \#201686 - Added support to preserve fonts embedded in Word document during DOCX to PDF conversion. 
* \#F131792, \#F132491 - Added support to preserve editable form fields during Word to PDF conversion.
* \#195530, \#203634, \#201967 - Added support to open and save Strict Open XML Document (*.docx) format.
* \#102574, \#98747, \#200288 - Added support for exporting Word Headings to PDF Bookmarks during Word to PDF conversion.
* \#200288 - Added support for generating 508 compliant PDF documents during Word to PDF conversion.
* \#F137353 - Added `CharacterFormat` property in `WPicture` class.
* \#204615, \#204634, \#205098, \#F137327 - Added Font stream property in `SubstituteFontEventHandler` to set alternate font stream for missing fonts in device during Word to PDF/Image conversion.

### Breaking Changes
{:#DocIO-breaking-changes}

* \#F137353 - The property `CharacterFormat` was added to the `IWPicture` interface.
* The method `IsValid` was added to the `IHtmlConverter` interface.
* The method `AppendHTML` was added to the `IWParagraph` interface.

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#197282 - `ArgumentException` will be no longer thrown while parsing a particular RTF document.
* \#199294 - The character and paragraph properties inherited from source document default formats are now properly imported to destination document.
* \#197763 - Picture effects are now preserved properly while merging a cloned Word document for multiple times.
* \#196839 - Paragraph with "None" list style type is now preserved properly while parsing a HTML format document.
* \#201256, \#201364 - Field code is now serialized properly within "instrText" element while opening and saving DOCX format document.
* \#198450, \#198489 - `FormatException` will be no longer thrown while opening and saving a particular DOCX format document.
* \#198653 - `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` will be no longer thrown while updating fields in a particular Word document.
* \#200254 - `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` will be no longer thrown while parsing a particular DOCX format document.
* \#198360 - `IndexOutOfRangeException` will be no longer thrown while opening and saving a particular Word document.
* \#200327 - Formatting of contents within textbox is now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as HTML.
* \#199782 - Font preservation issue has been resolved while converting a particular RTF document to Word document.
* \#199747 - No extra characters will be preserved while converting a Word document as RTF.
* \#198068 - Nested body contents are now preserved properly while parsing a particular Word document.
* \#195214 - Paragraph within nested table is now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#195214 - Vertically merged cells are now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#196520 - Fields with unknown type are now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#196520, \#200771 - List numbering preservation issue has been resolved while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#195214 - Table styles are now applied properly while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#199166, \#202106 - `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` will be no longer thrown while updating content control text for Word to PDF conversion.
* \#189615 - Shape flip style is now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#198450 - Frames are now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#189881 - Text alignment is now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#198842 - Footnote preservation issue has been resolved while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#197456 - `OutOfMemoryException` will be no longer thrown while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#198675 - `NullReferenceException` will be no longer thrown while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#197524, \#202787 - Hanging issue has been resolved while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#200936 - Oval shape preservation issue has been resolved while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#198662 - Image is now preserved properly while merging DOC format documents and saving as DOCX format document.
* \#198007, \#195050 - The content control text is now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#198007, \#195050 - Line break is now preserved properly while binding content control text for Word to PDF conversion.
* \#200715 - Ampersand symbol is now imported properly from a particular HTML file.
* \#200861 - The content control text is now preserved properly while converting a particular DOCX format document as RTF.
* \#201472 - File path is now shown properly in hyperlink which is created by using `AppendHyperlink` method.
* \#201937, \#202761 - `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` will be no longer thrown while performing Mail merge in a particular Word document.
* \#200399 - The image position with multiple column issue has been resolved while converting a particular Word document as PDF. 
* \#202261 - The gray scale image recoloring is now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#201685 - The horizontal shape position issue has been resolved while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#200702 - Alternative text for OLE Picture is now preserved properly while saving a particular DOCX format document.
* \#200882 - Decimal separator is now preserved properly while exporting a particular HTML file in machines with German culture.
* \#202007 - No longer hangs while performing Word to PDF conversion for a particular Word document in 64-bit environment.
* \#202883 - Tab position issue has been resolved while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#201467 - Table missing issue has been resolved while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#204072 - Bidirectional text is now preserved properly while converting a particular RTF document to Word document.
* \#201718 - Shape position and size preservation issue has been resolved while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#202700 - No longer hangs while performing Word to PDF conversion for a particular Word document.
* \#201967 - `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` will be no longer thrown while opening and saving a particular Word DOCX document containing web video element.
* \#201718 - `SmileyFace` shape preservation issue has been resolved while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#199931 - Macro project signature is now preserved properly in customUI.xml (Ribbon QAT options) for a particular document during DOTM to DOCM conversion.
* \#203526 - `NullReferenceException` will be no longer thrown while updating document fields in a particular Word document.
* \#204279 - List number is preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#199166, \#200861, \#202966 - Font size is now preserved properly while converting Word document with compatibility option `overrideTableStyleFontSizeAndJustification` as PDF.
* \#199221 - Table position issue has been resolved while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#197686 - `IndexOutOfRangeException` will be no longer thrown while parsing a particular RTF Word document.
* \#F135803 - Date field with static field code text is now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#205098 - Performance has been improved now while converting a Word document to PDF in a Linux docker container.
## FileExplorer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#F138123 – In FileExplorer, issue with file upload functionality in edge browser has been fixed.
## Gantt

### Features
{:#gantt-features}

* \#198401 - Now it is possible to enable/disable the automatic update of schedule date values in Gantt.
* \#198322 - The Gantt control now provides the support to filter column with multiple predicates dynamically.
* \#F135428 - The Gantt control now provides the support to update the data source dynamically in resource allocation view.
* Now it is possible to update a task dynamically in resource allocation view in Gantt

### Bug Fixes
{:#gantt-bug-fixes}

* \#205646 - Issue with `searchItem` method has been fixed.
* \#203527 - Issue with multiple selection in resource allocation view has been fixed.
* \#200693 - Now the `RowSelected` event triggered properly on mouse click action.
* \#199049 - Issue with dependency tasks validation on manual taskbar editing has been fixed. 
* \#198369 - Auto focusing issue in Gantt on toolbar click action has been fixed.
* \#198543 - Task label overlapping issue in Gantt has been fixed.

## Grid


### Bug Fixes
{:#grid-bug-fixes} 

*  \#203058, 196721 - Grid exporting is working properly, when camel case is used in datasource.
*  \#203958 - Word exporting of grid with invisible and template columns is working properly.


## Maps

### Features
{:#maps-features}

* \#195450, 196781, 196829 - Performance of the map control has been improved.
* Support has been provided to toggle the visibility of map shapes when clicking the corresponding legend.
## MaskEdit

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmaskedit-bug-fixes}

* \#204871  - In MaskEditTextBox, mask format ‘? ? ? ? ?’ issue has been fixed  in mobile devices.

## PDF

### Features
{:#pdf-features}

*	\#199403,197452 - Support for adding annotation to the PDF Layers is added.
*	\#188500,197742 - Support for flattening the existing signature field.
*	\#134972 – Support for adding document timestamp to the PDF document.
*	\#153585,164455,154694,135418,135619,135602,F135954,200150 – Support for drawing RTL text to the PDF document.

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

*	\#201795,202536 - Exception will no longer be thrown while extracting text content from the provided PDF document in different culture settings.
*	\#200302 - Improved the performance when importing the pages from the existing PDF document.
*	\#200680 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when altering the page label of existing PDF document.
*	\#200527 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when loading a PDF document with open and repair.
*	\#200438 - Same key has already been added exception no longer occurs when loading particular PDF document.
* 	\#199711 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when importing named destinations from the PDF document.
*	\#198565 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when merging the particular PDF documents.
* 	\#197635 - `An error was encountered while retrieving page content` exception no longer occurs when adding watermark to the existing PDF document in Adobe Acrobat Pro DC.
*	\#199398 - URI value from `PdfLoadedUriAnnotation` is now preserving properly when retrieving the PDF document.
*	\#199159 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when importing the pages from the particular PDF document.
*	\#198936,198057 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when merging the particular PDF documents.
*	\#198683 - Performance has been increased when loading particular PDF document.
*	\#198498 - Opacity is now properly applying to the flattened annotation.
*	\#198487 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when loading the particular PDF document.
*	\#198281,198759 - Signature is now valid while adding digital signature to the PDF document in different time zones.
*	\#194851 - Improved the performance while closing the PDF document.
*	\#196766,198057,196766 - The document size is optimized when importing the page from the particular document.
*	\#197077,198678 - `Cannot find the PDF catalog information` exception no longer occurs when loading the particular PDF document.
*	\#197123 - PDF form fields are now preserving properly when merging the PDF documents.
*	\#196643 - Improved the performance when loading the corrupted PDF documents.
*	\#196621 - Improved the performance when splitting a large PDF document.
*	\#194018 - `ArgumentException` is no longer occurs when flattening a PDF document.
*	\#199907 - The `PdfLoadedSignatureField` is now loading from the existing PDF document.
*	\#201292 - Cannot use the specified stream exception is no longer thrown, while loading the particular PDF document.
*	\#196882 - Borders of `PdfLoadedTextBoxField` are now preserved properly while flattening form fields.
*	\#200987 - PDF will no longer be corrupted, when adding the security to the protected document.
*	\#201693 - Null reference exception will not occurs while merging particular PDF documents.
*	\#194851 - Improved performance for saving large PDF document.
*	\#201871 - Preflight error will not occur for the flattened PDF document.
*	\#199545 - Border color and font is now retrieving properly from `PdfLoadedFreeTextAnnotation`.
*	\#203312 - Text is now preserving properly when appending to the particular PDF document.
*	\#201303 - PDF layer is now removing properly from the page.
*	Child `PdfGrid` borders are now preserved properly.
*	Cell padding is now applied properly to the background image of `PdfGridCell`.



## PivotChart

### Features
{:#pivotchart-features}

*  PivotChart can be rendered with multiple axis now.

## PivotClient

### Features
{:#pivotclient-Features}

*  Calculated members and measures are supported dynamically at runtime.

## Presentation

### Features
{:#presentation-features}

* \#188453 , \#195951, \#120538, \#150198, \#154578, \#162596, \#165263, \#175560, \#179509, \#190137 - Added support for creating and editing animations in PowerPoint presentation.
* \#167482, \#167778 - Added support for PowerPoint presentation to PDF conversion in Azure platform.

### Breaking Changes
{:#presentation-breaking-changes}

* The property `Timeline` was added to the `IBaseSlide` interface.

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}
* \#201506 - Used memory is now disposed properly after resaving the PowerPoint presentation with charts.
* \#198361 - Images are now preserved properly while performing clone and merge in PowerPoint presentation.
* \#199566 - The URL associated with a hyperlink is now preserved properly while re-saving the PowerPoint presentation.
* \#199259 - Application will no longer hang while re-saving the PowerPoint presentation with SmartArt diagrams.
* \#196810 - PowerPoint presentation is no more corrupted while applying slide formatting options.
## ReportViewer `Preview`

### Features

* \#199012 - Provided support to render 3D chart when it is enabled.
* \#200518,200518 - Provided serialization helper for report definition.
* \#199657 - Provided datatable input support in RDLC report.

### Bug Fixes

* \#201595 - Date format in chart axis values will render properly.
* \#201290 - Now, SSRS Report Server hosted images is render properly in preview.
* \#200716 - Resolved the RDLC sub report loading problem due to null reference exception.
* \#199482 - Now, command type is serialized properly for shared dataset.
* \#198092 - Resolved command line issue in dataset filter expression.
* \#197529 - Resolved the chart series border style serialization problem.
* \#197529 - Label visibility property will serialize properly when specified as expression.
* \#200798 - Resolved the exception when report does not contain any body report items.
* \#191700 - Now, RDLC report will render properly when datasource items contains array values.

## Schedule

###  Breaking Changes
{:#schedule-breaking-changes}

*  We have now integrated into our source, the time conversion process of appointment’s start and end time to local time on initial fetch up from database, before assigning it to Schedule `dataSource`. Therefore, the explicit appointment time conversions from application end is no more needed. In Core application, it is necessary to set the serializer settings to handle with local system timezone. For this, you need to add the below line of code in your `startup.cs` file.

{% highlight c# %}

Services.AddMvc().AddJsonOptions(options =>
{
    Options.SerializerSettings.DateTimeZoneHandling = Newtonsoft.Json.DateTimeZoneHandling.Local;
    Options.SerializerSettings.ContractResolver = new DefaultContractResolver()l;
});
{% endhighlight %}

### Bug Fixes
{:#schedule-bug-fixes} 

*  \#201736: Schedule can now be exported properly to PDF format without any serialization issues.

## Spreadsheet

### Features	
{:#spreadsheet-features}

* Provided support for array formulas.
* Provided support for structured references with tables.

### Bug Fixes
{:#spreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#207793 – Issue with exporting in custom cell styles is fixed.
## TreeGrid

### Features
{:#treegrid-features}

* Now it is possible to expand/collapse total summary and customize the total summary height in TreeGrid.
* \#198322 - The TreeGrid control now provides the support to filter column with multiple predicates dynamically.
* \#195738 - Now it is possible to customize the detail template column width in TreeGrid.
* \#195133 - The TreeGrid control now provides support to perform CRUD operations through data manager using URL and WebAPI adaptors.

### Bug Fixes
{:#treegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#197718 - Issue with column validation on row add action has been fixed.
* \#197216 – Alignment issue in frozen column with text wrap enabled mode has been fixed.
* \#204996 - Issue in inline editing with command columns has been fixed.
* \#205681 - Issue in updating data source with total summary rows has been fixed.


## TreeMap

### Features
{:#treemap-features}

* Support has been provided to render the tree map from any specific level instead of first level.
## TreeView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#202119  - Issue with dragging a dynamically added nodes in TreeView has been fixed.

* \#199157  - The issue of unable to use ‘ul’ elements in the TreeView template has been fixed.

## XlsIO

### Features
{:#xlsio-features}

* \#135543, \#136201 – Support is provided for DataTable in ASP.NET Core platform from .NET Standard 2.0.
* \#201193 - Provided support to retain formula references while removing and reattaching worksheets.
* \#196744 - Provided support for "Repeat All Item Labels" option in pivot table.
* \#193297 - Provided support for GroupShapes.
* \#186369 - Provided support to skip blank cells on range copy.
* Provided support for Resize and Offset operations in IRange.
* Provided support for extension lists that are supported by Microsoft Excel.

### Breaking Changes
{:#xlsio-breaking-changes}

* \#135543, \#136201 – Different overloaded methods for `ImportDataTable`, `ImportDataReader` , `ImportDataView`, `ImportDataColumn`, `ExportDataTable` are added in `IWorksheet` interface.
* \#201193 - `UpdateSheetFormulaReference` is added in `IApplication` interface to ensure whether to remove worksheet reference in formulas on removing and reattaching the worksheet.
* \#196744 - `RepeatLabels` property is added in `IPivotField` interface.
* \#196744 - `RepeatAllLabels(bool)` method is added in `IPivotTableOptions` interface.
* \#193297 - `Group(IShapes)`, `UnGroup(IGroupShape)`, `UnGroup(IGroupShape, bool)` methods are added in `IShapes` interface. 
* \#186369 - `CopyTo(IRange, ExcelCopyRangeOptions, bool)` method is added in `IRange` interface to skip blank cells while copying.
* \#198134 - `FullFileName` property is added in `IWorkbook` interface.
* \#198663 , \#198664 - `IRange` and `IWorkbook` interfaces are implemented with `IEnumerable`.
* `Resize()` and `Offset()` methods are added in `IRange` interface.
* `ShowLeaderLines` and `LeaderLines` properties are added in `IChartSerie` interface.
* `IIconConditionValue` interface with properties `IconSet` and `Index` is added.

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#200525 - Corruption issue while removing last row in a table is fixed.
* \#200090 - Space preservation issue while resaving a binary (XLS) file to xml format (XLSX) is fixed.
* \#198853 - Incremental formula is set properly for formulas with sheet reference.
* \#198385 - Legend color is not set when applied for entire legend collection is fixed.
* \#198849 - Column styles will be moved properly while inserting column in a worksheet.
* \#198858 - File with macros can be saved successfully without any corruption.
* \#198898 - Excel file with external formula reference in data validation can be opened without any exception.
* \#198785 - Find values within range accepts `ExcelFindType.Values` without any exception.
* \#198289 - Performance issue while opening Excel file with data validation applied on large range is resolved.
* \#198385 - Issue with chart axis font color for binary file is fixed.
* \#158298 - Month and day columns in pivot table can be sorted properly.
* \#195255 - Performance issue while closing the workbook is fixed.
* \#197896 - Filter icon visibility issue in merged column header is fixed.
* \#197903 - Number formats are preserved correctly without any addition of extra slashes.
* \#198277 - Exception raised while opening the Excel file with date cell type is resolved.
* \#197711 - Exception thrown while saving an XML file having default parent style index to XLSX format is resolved.
* \#197433 - Issue with row height value when changing the system resolution is resolved.
* \#197106 - Calculated field can be added to more than one pivot table without any file corruption.
* \#196836 - Object reference exception when worksheet has custom property set to null is resolved.
* \#196955 - Chart font color settings are applied properly in chart elements.
* \#158298 - Issue with pivot table field sorting when sort field items are less than the field item count is fixed.
* \#196737 - Worksheet header image can be replaced properly without any variation in image size.
* \#196502 - Exception while opening an Excel file with empty fill tag is resolved.
* \#191260 , \#196173 - Used range is properly updated while layouting a pivot table.
* \#196117 - Issue with hyperlink added to a cell after adding shape hyperlink is fixed.
* \#198472 - Exception while opening the Excel file with unknown named color in ASP.NET Core platform is resolved.
* \#195137 , \#196893 - Column text contains DateTime formatted values instead of Date values is fixed.
* \#198849 - Cell data validation is removed properly while copying empty cells.
* \#F136967 - Issue while parsing numeric cell value in Brazil culture is fixed.
* \#200508 - Pivot field sorting is incorrect while sorting month name is fixed.
* \#203029 - Issue with nullable properties not getting exported in Business Objects is fixed.
* \#201868 - ArgumentException raised while retrieving `UsedRange` for binary file is fixed.
* \#201968 - Issue while setting formula with IF function is fixed.
* \#200818 - File gets corrupted while setting numeric value for named ranges is resolved.
* \#201967 - Issue with percentage values in chart is fixed.
* \#201131 - Formula value is incorrect while parsing the workbook is fixed.
* \#201140 - Performance issue while opening Excel file with charts is fixed.
* \#200629 - Need to skip the exception for null values in template marker.
* \#199992, \#202778, \#202886 - Issue with invalid formula in OfficeChart is fixed.
* \#201506 - Memory leak issue in OfficeChart is resolved.
* \#203971 - Issue with OLE object type of Acrobat document is fixed.
* \#203204 - Exception thrown while setting negative values to shape properties is resolved.
* \#202589 - Issue with `Picture` property of OLE object is fixed.
* Corruption issue is resolved while copying tables with same name by AddCopy().
* Performance issue while copying entire column to another range is resolved.
* Conditional formats are removed from destination range while copying is fixed.
* Worksheet unused columns are not collapsed in Google Sheets.
* Exception is no longer thrown while copying tables to existing table ranges.
* Exception while opening Excel file with DDE link formula is resolved.
* Fixed various issues in `CopyTo()` and `AddCopy()` of tables, formulae, ranges, shapes and worksheets.
* AutoShapes are not re-positioned properly after moving to same or different worksheet using `CopyTo()` is fixed.
* Issue with incorrect table formula value is fixed.
* Chart line colors are not varied and are returned properly.
* Issue with left and top positions for Checkbox is returned is fixed.
* Chart category axis value is proper while creating a chart with data values containing formula.
* Null reference exception thrown while setting “BASE” formula is resolved.
* Worksheet data is exported to data table with proper column name.
* Exception thrown while opening a workbook having unused formats with ParseWorksheetsOnDemand is resolved.

