---
title: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core  2018 Volume 4 service pack 1  Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core  2018 Volume 4 service pack 1  Release Notes  
platform: aspnet-core
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_4_SP1  version="v16.4.0.52" %} 






## Common

### Breaking Changes
{:#common-breaking-changes}


* Visual Studio 2017 and Visual Studio 2019 Preview 2 installed machine, Syncfusion asp.net-core extensions will not be configured in Visual Studio 2017. Refer [this documentation](https://help.syncfusion.com/common/essential-studio/utilities#vsix-installer) to configure the extensions manually. 

## Autocomplete

### Features
{:#autocomplete-features}

* \#217407 - Improved filtering by providing option to include diacritic characters with suggestion list of AutoComplete control.
## FileExplorer

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejfileexplorer-breaking-changes}

* \#224998 - At initial time of FileExplorer rendering, if you specify `selectedItems` or `selectedFolder` API, `select` event will not be triggered hereafter. On UI interaction or when dynamically changing the above property values, `select` event will be triggered.
## Gantt

### Bug Fixes
{:#gantt-bug-fixes}

* \#223283 - Issue in parent task progress calculation has been fixed.
* \#223906 - The initial load performance has been improved for long duration tasks mapped with duration and start date values.
* \#225368 - Issue with initial load task dependency validations has been fixed.
## Menu

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejmenu-bug-fixes}

* \#224987 - Menu locale throws console error when using RequireJS issue has been fixed.
## PDF

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

*	\#224603 - The null reference exception will no longer occur when merging certain PDF documents.
*	\#141148 - Tool tip is now preserving properly for `PdfSignatureField`.
*	\#224531 - The null reference exception will no longer occur while saving the merged PDF document.
*	\#223013 - The radio button field state is now importing properly from XFDF document.
*	\#222779 - Attachment is now opening properly from the merged PDF document.
*	\#222024, \#224795 - The null reference exception will no longer occur when saving the PDF document.
*	\#221122 - PDF security is now preserving properly when saving the PDF document twice.
*	\#217591 - Font is now preserving properly in the flattened PDF document.
*	\#221424 - The `Brush` property of the `PdfPen` is now initialized through the constructor.
*	\#219569 - The "Arithmetic overflow exception" will no longer occur while signing the PDF document.
*	\#222059 - All hidden layers are now printing properly when saving and loading the PDF document.
*	\#221328 - Performance has been improved when saving the uncorrupted PDF document.








## Presentation

### Bug Fixes
{:#Presentation-bug-fixes}

* \#224226 - Application will no more hang while adding an image to a PowerPoint slide.
* \#225390 - PowerPoint file will no longer get corrupted while resaving multiple times with charts.
* \#222440 - Notes in a PowerPoint slide can now be cloned and added to another slide.
## ReportViewer

### Features

* \#222076 - Provided `InScope` expression support for data region and its group elements.
* \#185159 - Provided support to use object functions in code modules.

### Bug Fixes
{:#reportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#221279 - Applying transparent color for Tablix header cell content and background while exporting to PDF and Word export through the web ReportDesigner has been resolved.
* \#219805 - Now, excel sheet names with Unicode characters will export properly.
* \#221279 - Textbox report item height not updated problem based on line feed elements has been resolved.
* \#220969 - Resolved additional space problem in Excel export when the KeepWithGroup Before option is enabled in the Tablix report item.
* \#221556 - Now, report with `Globals.PageName` built-in collection can be exported directly through the ReportWriter.
* \#222390 - Resolved built-in collection `Globals.PageNumber` text run right alignment problem in PDF export.
* \#222198 - Dependent parameter value will update properly in rendering layout after clicking the view report.
* \#222840 - Now, tablix grouping column width will update properly in Excel export.
* \#219541 - Chart data label angle specified for line chart will display properly in the ReportViewer.
* \#222840 - Resolved the sheet name duplication problem when the sheet is named based on group in Excel export.
* \#223992 - Resolved the problem in initial preview and printing of Azure environment reports.

## RichTextEditor

### Bug fixes
{:#ejRTE-bug-fixes}

* \#223779 - Change event triggers just for focus in with edge browser issue has been fixed. 
* \#221308 - Height not updated with RTE Edit Table properties for selected rows in table issue has been fixed.
* \#223029 - Indent is not applied correctly with ordered and unordered list issue has been fixed.
## ejSpreadsheet

### Features
{:#ejspreadsheet-features}

* Provided import/export support for charts with Trendlines.
* Provided support to highlight the invalid data while updating the value in validation applied cells.
## XlsIO

### Breaking Changes
{:#xlsio-breaking-changes}

* \#222797 - `AutoDetectComplexScript` has been added in `XlsIORendererSettings` class to support complex script rendering in Excel to PDF conversion


### Bug Fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#223667 - Exception no more thrown if chart's data range column is deleted.
* \#225065 - Currency number format is now  properly detected in XlsIO generated Excel File.
* \#224023 - Exception thrown while opening an XlsIO re-saved document with group shape is resolved.
* \#223946 - Conditional format is now preserved properly while saving the workbook multiple times.
* \#223839 - Infinite recursive loop on saving an Excel file after modifying chart data range with the improper series indices is resolved.
* \#224024 - Not implemented exception thrown while opening an Excel document external formula range in check box is fixed.
* \#223448 - Pivot table field settings are properly preserved on re-saving the Excel file.
* \#223167 - Custom time format [h]:mm:ss is now detected automatically.
* \#223376 - Exception occurs while saving Excel document with OLE object is resolved.
* \#223226 - NullReferenceException thrown while resaving an Excel file to HTML is fixed.
* \#223041 - Data validation formula is preserved proper while saving as XML.
* \#221229 - Issue with pivot field values due to improper pivot field data format, is resolved.
* \#214445 - Table.Refresh() is now working proper with ODBC connection.
* \#223918 - Conditional format is now preserved properly on converting Excel document to PDF.
* \#223859 - Hyperlink is now set properly in Excel to PDF conversion.
* \#221079 - Exception thrown if print-title row height is higher in Excel to PDF conversion, is fixed.
* \#221693 - Parameter invalid exception thrown while converting Excel document into PDF is fixed.
* \#222797 - Incorrect Thai font in Excel to PDF conversion is fixed.
* \#F141101 - Issue with incorrect parsing of comment is resolved.
* Issue with Conditional formatting operator type is incorrect in re-saved Excel document is fixed.
* Setting a table column header name no longer corrupts the Excel.
* DataBar color is now applied proper for negative values.
* External formula is  applied proper in NET Standard.

