---
title 		: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2018 volume 1 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2018 volume 1 Release Notes
platform 	: aspnet-core
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_1 version=site.version.2018_vol_1 %} 

Revised September 14, 2017 -  ASP.NET Core 2.0 support has been included.





## Autocomplete

### Bug Fixes
{:#autocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#190796 – Issue with getting Autocomplete key value on form submit has been fixed.

### Breaking Changes
{:#autocomplete-breaking-changes}

* \#179095 - The DOM structure in Autocomplete visual mode has been changed from SPAN to DIV based on HTML5 validation standard.
## Chart

### Features
{:#chart-features}

* \#186483 – Support has been provided for smooth animation in column type series.
* \#183813, #182965 – Support has been provided for template in trackball feature.
* Support has been provided for label intersect actions such as `Trim`, `Wrap`, `MultipleRows`, and `Hide` in 3D axis.
* Support has been provided for `Spline`, `RangeColumn`, `Scatter` and `StackingArea` type series in polar and radar.

### Bug Fixes
{:#chart-bug-fixes}
* \#191963 - Now, [`Data Manager`](https://help.syncfusion.com/aspnet-core/chart/working-with-data#remote-data) is now working properly for chart series.
* \#192226 - Now, data will be returned only for the selection enabled series in range [`selection`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-selectionsettings-enable).
* \#188357 - Now, scatter [`series`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series) will render properly with `null` points.
* \#193509 - Now, [`data label`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-marker-datalabel) is rendering properly without collision.
* \#193235, 193488 - Now, chart [`series`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series) is rendering properly with zero in 1st point.
* \#188776 - [`Edge label placement's`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-edgelabelplacement) `shift` is now working properly without colliding the axis labels.
* F133511 - Assigning the [`axis name`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-xaxisname) with whitespace to the series is now working properly.
* \#194711 - [`Offset`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-marker-datalabel-offset) property in dataLabel is now working properly for 3D chart.
* \#191062, 191974 - Now, chart is rendering properly on resize, without increasing the height.
* \#193840 - Now, chart is updating properly with new [`data source`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-datasource) through legend click.
* \#195541 - [`Crosshair`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:crosshair) tooltip is now working properly for bar type series.



## Common

### Features

{:#common-features}

* \#192510 - We have provided standard version support for framework assemblies in ASP.NET Core.


## DataManager

### Features

{:#datamanager-features}

* We can perform a data operation based on nested column data and bind to the data control. Here, if we want to perform the server side data operation for the nested dataSource like sorting, grouping, filtering, searching, take, or skip then we have to define the generic type of dataSource.

### Bug Fixes
{:#datamanager-bug-fixes}

* #192798 - The enable-anti-forgery property in DataManager is now serialized to JavaScript properly.
## Diagram

### Features
{:#diagram-features}

* \#139463, \#129695 - Layering support for diagram control is added.
## DocIO

### Features
{:#DocIO-features}

* \#158678 , \#161942 , \#175960 , \#178173 , \#169491 , \#180412 , \#181509 , \#183143 , \#183750 , \#131672 , \#185703 , \#185793 , \#185927 , \#186314 , \#173965 , \#187805 , \#188727 , \#193069 , \#193695 , \#184554 , \#195475 , \#195671 , \#127227 , \#197345 , \#197187 , \#132419 , \#197374 - Added support for Word to PDF conversion.
* \#192592 - Added option to import styles with new unique name, if style exist in destination document with same name and different type.
* \#149806 - Added support to preserve editable range permissions of protected Word document in DOCX to DOCX conversion.

### Breaking Changes
{:#DocIO-breaking-changes}

* The property `ImportStylesOnTypeMismatch` was added to the `IWordDocument` interface.
* Overload methods `OpenReadOnly` was added to the `IWordDocument` interface.
* Complete field code is now included in Document Object Model(DOM) and in the Text property of `WParagraph` class. Whereas in previous versions, partial field code is included in DOM. For more information, kindly refer [here](https://help.syncfusion.com/file-formats/release-notes/migratingtov16.1.0.24#docio).
* \#184371 - The `TableGrid` style is now applied to the table that is added using `AddTable()` or `WTable(IWordDocument doc)` API, like Microsoft Word application. Whereas in previous versions, the `TableGrid` style is not applied to the table.

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#190591 - DOC format document opens properly after modifying the protection type from 'AllowOnlyFormFields' to other types for a particular Word document.
* \#194503 - Owner information is now set properly while merging comment from source to destination document.
* \#192944 - `CustomDocumentProperties` with whitespace values are parsed properly in a particular Word document.
* \#191534 - `PAGE` and `NUMPAGES` fields are preserved properly while converting a particular RTF Word document as DOCX.
* \#189597 - `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` and `NullReferenceException` will be no longer thrown while deleting and accessing a bookmark content from a particular Word document.
* \#190880 - The resultant Word document is no longer corrupted after updating the `UpdateDocumentFields` for a particular Word document.
* \#190024 - Images are removed properly while clearing the Word document elements. 
* \#191067 - `StackOverflowException` will be no longer thrown while loading a particular Word document.
* \#189874 - Memory leak issue has been resolved while saving a particular Word document as RTF document (multiple times).
* \#188568 - `Print Layout` view is now preserved properly while opening/printing resultant RTF document in Microsoft Word 2016.
* \#190621 - `NullReferenceException` will be no longer thrown while opening a particular Word document.
* \#189655 - Bullet size is now preserved properly while merging a particular Word document elements.
* \#189185 - `BuiltinDocumentProperties` (Company,manager) are imported properly while opening particular DOC format document.
* \#188296 - `OutOfMemoryException` will be no longer thrown while updating document fields for a particular Word document.
* \#194825 - Table width is now updated properly while setting the table cell width for a particular Word document.
* \#194535 - Paragraph spacing is now preserved properly while importing a particular RTF format document. 
* \#195688 - The file is no longer corrupted while extracting and saving native data of an OLE object.
* \#194420 - `BookmarkEnd` is now preserved properly while importing a particular DOCX format document.
* \#178727 - `Numbering.xml` file size is not increasing to huge size while importing multiple Word documents.
## DropDownList

### Features

{:#dropdownlist-features}

* #190729 - The initial rendering of DropDownList control takes more time because of the popup list being loaded at that time. Now we have rendered the popup dynamically instead of the initial load and thus increasing the performance of the control. We have provided support for new property "loadOnDemand".

## FileExplorer

### Features
{:#fileexplorer-features}

* \#196325 - Provided virtual scrolling support for loading files and folders on demand in order to improve performance.
* \#191114 - Provided API to customize the upload settings of FileExplorer component.

### Bug Fixes
{:#fileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#192295 - Resolved the alignment issue with get information dialog content in ASP.NET Core FileExplorer component.

## Gantt

### Features
{:#gantt-features}

* \#188603 – Now it is possible to draw the dependency lines using mouse actions with auto scroll support.
* \#189892, #194607 – The Gantt control now provides support for rounding off the duration when the taskbar is dropped after editing in the middle of the timescale unit.
* \#183278, #195145, #195146 – It is now possible to delete the dependency lines in Gantt using dependency delete dialog.
* \#190226 – The Gantt control now provides support for the tasks which passes through in daylight saving time of a given time zone.
* \#188603 – Auto scrolling support while drawing dependency lines has been implemented.
* \#192469 - Now it is possible to prevent the specific editing operations in taskbar resize, taskbar dragging and predecessor draw actions using `taskbarEditing` event.
* Gantt control now provides support for server-side event `QueryTaskbarInfo` using which the taskbars can be customized while exporting to PDF.


### Bug Fixes
{:#gantt-bug-fixes}
* \#194609 – Issue with updating the datasource with data manager dynamically using `setModel` method has been fixed
* \#195243 – Now it is possible to restrict the dependency line draw action to a specific dependency type.
* \#195961 – Issue with exporting data with invalid parent ID has been fixed.
* \#195961 – Issue with exporting the Gantt data with baseline start date and baseline end date value as empty string has been fixed
* \#195961 – Issue while exporting record without hierarchy in self-referential datasource has been fixed
* \#196387 – Issue with generating the serial number while updating the datasource using setModel has been fixed.
* \#191970 - Custom column fields value update issue in `updateRecordByTaskId` method has been fixed.

## Grid


### Features
{:#grid-features}

*  \#192255 - Provided support for checkbox selection with `frozen-columns`.
*  \#188664 - Provided support to select cells using mouse dragging.
*  \#195137 - Provide support for exporting with resize to fit columns.

### Bug Fixes
{:#grid-bug-fixes}

*  \#196856 - Enabling summary for Grid using setmodel with Adaptor works fine.
*  \#195165 - A newly added row in an empty Hierarchy Grid displays fine.
*  \#192931 - Filter dialog renders fine with mobile mode.
*  \#195137 - Themes are applied properly in exported Excel,PDF and Word files.
## Maps

### Breaking Changes
{:#maps-breaking-changes}

* The lower case properties such as `label`, `latitude`, and `longitude` were removed from the `MapMarker` class, as they were used only for internal purpose. Same properties with proper casing were added already.

### Features
{:#maps-features}

* Provided right to left rendering support.
* Provided support for mapping the colors from data source for shapes.
## NuGet

### Features
{:#nuget-features}

* Added NuGet package with .NET Standard support for DocIORenderer in ASP.NET Core platform.


## PDF

### Features
{:#pdf-features}
 
*	\#194410 - Added support to retrieve all the ink points collections from `PdfLoadedInkAnnotation`.
*	\#195867 - Added support to get creation date and name from the `PdfLoadedFreeTextAnnotation`.
*	\#173761,188375,193553 - Added support to flatten the static XFA form fields.
*	Added support to toggle the visibility of an existing layers from the PDF document.
*	Added support to timestamp the PDF document.

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

*	\#192637 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when removing a page from the particular PDF document.
*	\#190237 - System not supported exception no longer occurs when merging the PDF document with digital signature.
*	\#190870 - Text preservation issue no longer occurs while drawing existing template into another page.
*	\#189471 - Empty `PdfColor` is now retrieving as the background color of `PdfLoadedTextBoxField` which has no background color.
*	\#189756 - Out of range exception no longer occurs while drawing JPEG image to PDF document.
*	\#191567 - Null reference exception no longer occurs while reading existing combo box values.
*	\#187013 - PDF layers count is retrieving properly while loading an existing document.
*	\#190046 - `PdfTextMarkup` annotation fore color is now preserving properly.      
*	\#191487 - Form fields data is preserving properly after adding the signature certificate to PDF document.
*	\#194078 - `OnInstantiate` property in 3D annotation is now working properly.
*	\#193908 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when drawing a string to the PDF document.
*	\#195301 - Individual page size will no longer increase during splitting of PDF document.
*	\#195831 - Adding layers are now working as expected in multi-threading environment.
*	\#196133 - The generated document is not corrupted when loading the PDF document with `OpenAndRepair`.
*	\#195867 - Modified free text annotation content is now properly visible in the Adobe Reader.
*	\#195735 - Index and length referred to a location within the string exception will no longer occurs while loading particular PDF document.
*	\#194854 - Performance is improved while retrieving `PdfLoadedPage` from `PdfLoadedPageCollection`.
*	\#195652 - Radio button item from `PdfLoadedRadioButtonListField` is retrieving properly in particular page of a PDF document.
*	\#190724 - `PDFCacheCollection` is properly disposed when closing the document.
*	\#195286 - Namespace prefix 'pdf' is not defined exception is no longer thrown while loading a PDF document.
*	\#194851 - Performance is improved while merging PDF documents.
*	\#194854 - Performance is improved while adding more layers to PDF pages.
*	\#194875 - Object reference not set to an instance of an object exception no longer thrown while merging PDF documents.
*	\#135618 - Check boxes with the same name is now checked properly in XFA document.
*	\#133564,195274 - `PdfTextElement` is not hanging if the text is lesser than the bounds.
*	\#134651 - Form fields are not missing in `PdfLoadedFormFieldCollection` for the specific document.
*	Null reference exception will be no longer thrown while adding ink annotation using `PdfLoadedDocument`.
*	Preservation issue no longer occurs while flattening XFA document.
*	Improved the performance of drawing `PdfGrid` with row and column spans.

## PivotClient

### Features
{:#pivotclient-Features}

*  Exporting content to Excel, PDF and Word document is now possible in ASP.NET Core.
*  Provided value sorting support in pivot client for relational data sources.
*  Provided paging support for child members in member editor like in Microsoft Excel.

## Presentation

### Breaking Changes
{:#Presentation-breaking-changes}
* An overload method for `AddChart` was added to the interfaces `IShapes` and `IPresentationCharts`

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}
* \#193673 - Image in a PowerPoint slide is no longer replaced by another image while applying `PictureFill` in the same slide.
* \#195363 - Charts with 3D format are now preserved properly while re-saving the PowerPoint presentation.
* \#195363 - Charts are now preserved properly after editing the chart data while re-saving the PowerPoint presentation.
* \#196586 - Charts in the re-saved PowerPoint presentation are now visible in Google Slides and Apple Keynote applications.
* \#195136 - The PowerPoint presentation is no longer corrupted while editing the chart data.
* \#195136 - Shapes in the charts are now preserved properly while re-saving the PowerPoint presentation.
## ReportViewer `Preview`

The ReportViewer is a visualization control to view Microsoft RDL/RDLC files on a web page and it is powered by HTML5/JavaScript.

### Key Features   

* Supports Printing, Exporting, Paging, FitToPage and Zooming.

* Supports to bind DataSources.

* Supports to add Filters and Parameters.

* Grouping and Sorting supports.

* Support to use Built-in Fields and Expressions.

## ejSchedule

### Features
{:#ejschedule-features}

* \#188294 - An improved method for adding/removing resources dynamically to and from the layout has been introduced.
* \#181299 - Support to link together the same appointment to multiple resources has been added, so that the CRUD action made on single appointment reflects on all other grouped ones.

### Breaking changes
{:#ejschedule-breaking-changes}

* \#189169 - Appointments are now made to drag on mobile mode, just by tap holding and then moving it anywhere instead of dragging it through single touch and move.
* \##192566, #194125 - Appointment resizes properly now, when field names are mapped with custom names.

## TimePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#timepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#193820 - Nullable value is not accepted for TimePicker has been fixed. 
## TreeGrid

### Features
{:#treegrid-features}

* \#190010 – The TreeGrid control now provides support for multiple row drag and drop.
* \#187394, #187893, #195133 – Now it is possible to reorder the rows using a public method.
* \#191767 – Now the event will be triggered for every parent node being expanded and collapsed, when clicking expand all/collapse all toolbar buttons.
* \#183380, #190127 – Now it is possible to render the TreeGrid control with height as ‘auto’.
* \#183839, #186712 -  The TreeGrid control now provides support for filtering the records either with or without hierarchy.

### Bug Fixes
{:#treegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#192260 – Now in checkbox selection, the `rowSelected` event will be triggered while performing check/uncheck action using keyboard space key.
* \#188711,#195721 – Console error will no longer occur when rendering TreeGrid with no data with text wrap enabled.
* \#194739 – Issue with navigating the editing disabled cell with Tab key command has been fixed.
* \#195271 – Issue with exporting TreeGrid with checkbox selection enabled has been fixed.


## TreeMap

### Features
{:#treemap-features}

* Provided support for mapping the colors from data source for items.
## VS-Extensions

### Features
{:#vs-extensions-bug-fixes}

* \#F135494 - Exception when creating ASP.NET Core project from Syncfusion ASP.NET Core Project template. 


## XlsIO

### Features
{:#xlsio-features}

* \#189521 - Provided support to get cell's precedents and dependents. 
* \#174825 - Provided support  for paste link option in `CopyTo` operation.
* \#F130774 - XlsIO now allows data to be filtered by a cell or font and conditional formatting colors.
* \#192098 - Provided support for exporting Excel data to business objects.
* Provided support for alternative text in list objects.
* Provided support to filter data by icons.

### Breaking Changes
{:#xlsio-breaking-changes}

* \#189521 - `GetDependents()`, `GetPrecedents()` methods are added in `IRange` interface to get cell's precedents and dependents.
* \#192482 - `RangeIndexerMode` is added in `IApplication` interface to include indexer behavior of Interop.
* \#174825 - `CopyTo` method in `IRange` interface is overloaded with a boolean variable indicating paste link option.
* \#F130774 - `AddColorFilter` and `RemoveColorFilter` methods are added in `IAutoFilter` interface.
* \#192098 - `ExportData<T>` is added in `IWorksheet` interface.
* `AlternativeText` and `Summary` properties are added in `IListObject` interface.
* `AddIconFilter` and `RemoveIconFilter` methods are added in `IAutoFilter` interface.
* `IWorksheet` interface is implemented with IEnumerable<T>.

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#194195 - Corruption issue while copying a worksheet with JPG image is resolved.
* \#190466 - Cell value with thousand separator is now properly detected as number in German culture.
* \#192875 - Performance issue while converting Excel documents with embedded fonts is fixed.
* \#193873 - Excel workbook with duplicate comments can be resaved successfully without corruption.
* \#193832 - File name with space is truncated in HTTP response is resolved.
* \#192726 - Issue with `DisplayText` property, when cell formulas involve TODAY() function is fixed.
* \#193646 - Freeze panes are now updated properly while deleting the row.
* \#193315 - Exception is no longer thrown while setting calculated column formula using table from another worksheet.
* \#192964, \#192961 - Binary Excel documents with improper column value for an image can be opened successfully without exception.
* \#192558 - Issue with hyperlink address changed on resave is resolved.
* \#192558 - Borders and text alignment are copied properly between workbooks.
* \#191260 - Pivot table layout is improper when one or more fields with same name is fixed.
* \#191561 - Application hangs while setting `ShowTotals` to false for the table having hyperlink is fixed.
* \#192241 - Issue while adding multiple SVG images to an Excel document is fixed.
* \#191657 - Formatting issue while copying the worksheets is fixed.
* \#191673 - Hanging and corruption issues while resaving the binary Excel document with rich text stream record is fixed.
* \#191958 - Issue with table header cell string while accessing the `DisplayText` is fixed.
* \#191745 - Issue with group shapes hyperlink on resave is fixed.
* \#191723 - Chart number formats will be preserved properly on resave.
* \#189288 - Issue with row height for different font sizes is fixed.
* \#191316 - Issue with template marker default variable type action is fixed.
* \#188006 - Border line style issue while getting cell style is resolved.
* \#190663 - Template marker performance is improved while copying conditional formats.
* \#190031 - Excel document without table name can be opened successfully without argument exception.
* \#190343, \#191860 - Formula with external workbook reference value is incorrect on resave is fixed.
* \#189712 - ArgumentOutOfRange exception while copying cells between different workbooks is fixed.
* \#190381 - Excel document no longer gets corrupted while creating chart with `EnterDirectValues()`.
* \#190229 - Decimal separator is now recognized properly while setting formula in Czech and German cultures.
* \#190232 - Issue with display text when the number formats end with white-space is fixed.
* \#189693 - Excel document is no longer corrupted when creating new sheets in macro-enabled workbook.
* \#189681 - Excel document with empty preset dash value can be opened without XML exception.
* \#189308 - Issue with cell styles and formatting applied to the excluded hidden ranges is fixed.
* \#189191 - InvalidOperation exception is no longer thrown while saving Excel documents.
* \#191133, \#194961 - Excel document is no longer corrupted while resaving Excel document with pivot table.
* \#194356 - Excel document gets corrupted while downloading XlsIO resaved file from Internet Explorer browser is fixed.
* \#195255 - Performance issue while using `workbook.Close()` is fixed.
* \#194919 - Commented text and underlined style is incorrect while serializing to XML format is fixed.
* \#194718 - Conditional format range gets merged while creating icon set conditional format twice is fixed.
* \#194576 - Comment gets removed while moving the range is fixed.
* \#194093 - Fill color gets modified while changing chart type of the series is fixed.
* \#193171 - Out of Memory exception is thrown while copying large data using `CopyTo` method is resolved.
* \#193306 - Issue with `CopyTo()` method while copying the column with merged area is fixed.
* \#193873 - File corruption issue when resaved with comments is fixed.
* \#196758 - File size issue due to worksheet relations for the deleted worksheet while saving the workbook is fixed.
* Issue with `RefersToRange` for table named ranges is fixed.
* Image class conflict between Compression and XlsIO is resolved.
* Issue with position of dynamically added combo boxes in first column is fixed.
* Excel document with scatter chart can be resaved properly.
* Embedded chart with image format header or footer can be viewed without corruption and exception.
* Issue with incorrect row count in table column formula is fixed.
* Image from an embedded chart header or footer can be accessed now.
* Corruption issue when resaving the Excel document with continuous external named ranges is fixed.
* Corruption issue when resaving the Excel document with charts is fixed.
* Issue with adding hyperlinks collection when adding shapes is fixed.
* Fixed various issues while copying range and worksheets.
* Fixed various issue in formulas and named ranges.

