---
title: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2018 Volume 3  Nuget package Release Notes
description: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2018 Volume 3  Nuget package Release Notes
platform: aspnet-core
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core  Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date="November 23, 2018"  version="v16.3.0.35" %} 

<style>
#license {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #def8ff;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px;
}
</style>

<div id="license">
Starting with version 16.2 (2018 Vol 2), you need to include a valid license key (either paid or trial key) within your applications. 
Please refer to this <a href="/common/essential-studio/licensing/license-key">help topic</a> for more information 
</div>






## Common

### Breaking changes
{:#common-breakingchanges}

* Syncfusion has changed some of the NuGet package naming to make the users to search and find the required Syncfusion NuGet packages in nuget.org easily based on the control and its platforms. From the Essential Studio 2018 Volume 3 release(v16.3.0.21), Syncfusion has changed the NuGet packages naming for all the platforms (Windows Forms, WPF, UWP, Xamarin, Essential JS 1(ASP.NET Web Forms, ASP.NET MVC and ASP.NET Core) and Essential JS 2 (ASP.NET MVC and ASP.NET Core)).

 

If you are using the older NuGet packages which are listed below, then uninstall the older packages and install the corresponding new package name.

 

The list of older and new packages names as below.


| Older NuGet package name (till v16.2.0.50) | New NuGet package name (From v16.3.0.21) |
 --- | --- |
|Syncfusion.compression.netstandard|Syncfusion.Compression.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.docio.netstandard|Syncfusion.DocIO.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.DocIORender.netstandard|Syncfusion.DocIORender.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.htmlconverter.netstandard|Syncfusion.HtmlToPdfConverter.IE.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.officechart.netstandard|Syncfusion.OfficeChart.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.pdf.netstandard|Syncfusion.Pdf.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.PMML.netstandard|Syncfusion.PMML.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.Presentation.netstandard|Syncfusion.Presentation.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.XlsIO.netstandard|Syncfusion.XlsIO.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.Xlsiorender.netstandard|Syncfusion.XlsIORender.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.report.netstandard|Syncfusion.Report.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.EJ.ReportViewer.ASPNET.Core|Syncfusion.EJ.ReportViewer.AspNet.Core|
|Syncfusion.EJ.ReportDesigner.ASPNET.Core|Syncfusion.EJ.ReportDesigner.AspNet.Core|


## ReportViewer

### Bug Fixes
{:#reportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#218751 - The slash appending problem for User ID built-in collection while previewing the report with empty domain value has been resolved.
* \#220361 - Now, foreground hexadecimal color code value is applied properly in the Report Viewer when it is set through HTML markup text.
* \#F140611 - Problem in updating the report margin value in print preview has been resolved.
* \#214304 - Drillthrough hyperlink action with Javascript methods will be navigated to proper page in the Report Viewer.
* \#219807 - Now, `DateSerial` function returns proper value if `AddMonth` or `AddDays` method is used in expression.
* \#218850 - Problem in displaying the chart legend for list of chart report item inside the subreport has been resolved.
* \#216656 - Now, Thai culture text will be displayed properly when using external Garamond font in PDF export.
* \#216800, #217998 - Problem in collapse toggle functionality for child report items in Excel export has been resolved.
* \#212724 - Now, drillthrough-date-time parameter values have been updated properly in the subreport.
* \#204379 - Problem in displaying the value in chart axis when the date format is applied has been resolved.

