---
title: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core  2018 Volume 3 Service pack Release Notes 
description: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core  2018 Volume 3 Service pack Release Notes 
platform: aspnet-core
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Release Notes 

{% include release-info.html date="October 25,2018" version="v16.3.0.24" %} 

<style>
#license {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #def8ff;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px;
}
</style>

<div id="license">
Starting with version 16.2 (2018 Vol 2), you need to include a valid license key (either paid or trial key) within your applications. 
Please refer to this <a href="/common/essential-studio/licensing/license-key">help topic</a> for more information 
</div>






## Common

### Breaking changes
{:#common-breakingchanges}

* Syncfusion has changed some of the NuGet package naming to make the users to search and find the required Syncfusion NuGet packages in nuget.org easily based on the control and its platforms. From the Essential Studio 2018 Volume 3 release(v16.3.0.21), Syncfusion has changed the NuGet packages naming for all the platforms (Windows Forms, WPF, UWP, Xamarin, Essential JS 1(ASP.NET Web Forms, ASP.NET MVC and ASP.NET Core) and Essential JS 2 (ASP.NET MVC and ASP.NET Core)).

 

If you are using the older NuGet packages which are listed below, then uninstall the older packages and install the corresponding new package name.

 

The list of older and new packages names as below.


| Older NuGet package name (till v16.2.0.50) | New NuGet package name (From v16.3.0.21) |
 --- | --- |
|Syncfusion.compression.netstandard|Syncfusion.Compression.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.docio.netstandard|Syncfusion.DocIO.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.DocIORender.netstandard|Syncfusion.DocIORender.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.htmlconverter.netstandard|Syncfusion.HtmlToPdfConverter.IE.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.officechart.netstandard|Syncfusion.OfficeChart.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.pdf.netstandard|Syncfusion.Pdf.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.PMML.netstandard|Syncfusion.PMML.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.Presentation.netstandard|Syncfusion.Presentation.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.XlsIO.netstandard|Syncfusion.XlsIO.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.Xlsiorender.netstandard|Syncfusion.XlsIORender.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.report.netstandard|Syncfusion.Report.Net.Core|
|Syncfusion.EJ.ReportViewer.ASPNET.Core|Syncfusion.EJ.ReportViewer.AspNet.Core|
|Syncfusion.EJ.ReportDesigner.ASPNET.Core|Syncfusion.EJ.ReportDesigner.AspNet.Core|


## ReportViewer

### Features

* \#200518 - Provided support to load reports with modified report definition.
* \#209470 – Provided support to use custom code with external assemblies in ReportViewer.
* \#207364 - Provided support to render and export reports with external datasource.
* \#210391, 210055 - Provided complete can grow support using drawing libraries for ASP.Net Core.
* \#203061 - Provided ParameterHelper to create custom parameter in user application.


### Bug Fixes

* \#138473 - The header report item overlapping to body content in print preview has been resolved.
* \#210506, 210688 - Now, multiple nested grouping toggle exports properly to Excel when initial toggle state of a parent group is hidden.
* \#198150 - Now, child parameter values are updated properly when multi-valued parent parameter is changed.
* \#210648 - Incorrect resource text of reportviewer toolbar elements has been replaced with correct contents for Pt-BR culture.
* \#206918 - Rendering problem in PDF export when data region report item is used inside a rectangle has been resolved.
* \#209336 - Now, interactive sorting icon renders properly with tablix header when text alignment is right.
* \#213891 - Now, text alignment rendered properly when different border values used for tablix cell.
* \#210055 - Tablix cell content overlapping when text contains line feed elements in print mode has been resolved.

