---
title: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2018 Volume 3 Service Pack 1 Release Notes 
description: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2018 Volume 3 Service Pack 1 Release Notes 
platform: aspnet-core
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Release Notes 

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_3_sp1  version="v16.3.0.29" %} 

<style>
#license {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #def8ff;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px;
}
</style>

<div id="license">
Starting with version 16.2 (2018 Vol 2), you need to include a valid license key (either paid or trial key) within your applications. 
Please refer to this <a href="/common/essential-studio/licensing/license-key">help topic</a> for more information 
</div>






## Common

### Breaking changes
{:#common-breakingchanges}

* Syncfusion has modified following dependent NuGet packages naming in `EJ.Export` package to make the users to search and find the required Syncfusion NuGet packages in `nuget.org` easily based on the package purpose. 

If you are using the older NuGet packages which are listed below, then uninstall the older packages and install the corresponding new package name.

The list of older and new packages names as below.

| Older NuGet package name (till v16.3.0.21) | New NuGet package name (From v16.3.0.29) |
--- | --- |
|Syncfusion.Compression.AspNet.Mvc5|Syncfusion.Compression.Base|
|Syncfusion.OfficeChart.AspNet.Mvc5|Syncfusion.OfficeChart.Base|

## DocIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#216566 - The file will no longer be corrupted while adding Chart into a Word document (DOCX).
* \#215421 - Paragraph list is now preserved properly while merging a cloned paragraph with ImportOptions.KeepSourceFormatting.
* \#F139944, \#215539 - Custom UI is now preserved properly while opening and saving a Word document (DOCX). 
* \#214749 - The "FormatException" will no longer be thrown while opening a Word document.
* \#214664 - Table cell content is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#213886 - List number is now preserved properly while opening and saving a Word document (DOCX).
* \#F139508 - Page border position is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#213327 - Shape is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#213151 - Bullets are now preserved properly while merging the Word documents.
* \#213042 - Unexpected frame preservation issue has been resolved while calling the WordDocument.Replace API for Word document.
* \#212593 - Text wrapping issue has been resolved while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#212502 - Textbox is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#210586 - The "NotSupportedException" will no longer be thrown while converting a HTML document to Word document.
* \#182512 - The "OutOfMemoryException" will no longer be thrown while opening a Word document.
## Gantt

### Bug Fixes
{:#gantt-bug-fixes}

* Issue with taskbar tool tip position when tool tip has more content has been fixed.
## TreeGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#treegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#216853 - Issue in search text box with multiple tree grid in same page has been fixed.
* \#217739 - Issue in updateRecordByIndex public method with batch editing has been fixed.
* \#216627 - Now it is possible to get the hidden column field value in actionComplete event arguments.


## Grid


### Bug Fixes
{:#grid-bug-fixes} 

* \#215820 - Addition of duplicate row is prevented, when edit operation on a row is canceled after expanding the consecutive sets of child grid data.
* \#215701 - Template column is refreshed when a record is updated using `updateRecord` method.
* \#215932, 216183 - Exporting of Grid with summary works fine when `IsTemplateColumnIncluded`  property is set as false.
* \#215931 - Numeric column is exported correctly with the specified format(n0).
## PDF


### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

*	\#215133 - Performance has been improved when accessing the PDF document layers.
*	\#210943, \#216074 - String was not recognized as a valid DateTime exception will no longer occur while loading a PDF document.
*	\#215941 - Barcode is now preserving with proper size when specifying the size of a barcode.
*	\#215595 - The 1D barcode is now scanning properly with default width.
*	\#215096 - FNC characters in the given input is now preserving properly for `PdfGS1Code128Barcode`.
*	\#215166 - The Null-reference exception will no longer occur while loading a PDF document.
*	\#214918 - Light table header is now preserving properly when providing the data source through `IEnumerable`.
*	\#214401 - The ArgumentException will no longer occur when loading a PDF document.
*	\#217007 - The Null-reference exception will no longer occur when importing pages from the PDF document. 






## Presentation

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}

* \#207078 - The `FormatException` will no longer be thrown while resaving a PowerPoint document with formulated path points.

## ReportViewer

### Features

* \#216091, #211268 – Provided user defined custom attribute to render the trendline chart.
* \#217143 – Provided support to show the tooltip for chart series.

### Bug Fixes

* \#214296, #214448 – Provided support to render report with background image.
* \#218557 – The blank page rendering issue when using the nested tablix with span cells has been resolved.
* \#216640 – Now, Lookup, LookupSet, MultiLookup miscellaneous functions return correct values when different scopes are used in single expression.
* \#215937 – NRE in the chart report item when it contains legend title has been resolved.
* \#213670 – Now, the external font is applied properly in the chrome browser when font contains spacing character.
* \#215645 – Now, the export and fit to page toolbar options are updated properly based on focus.
* \#215524 – The parameter block visibility problem in the print layout when the view report action is triggered has been resolved.

## XlsIO

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#139653 - Issue with VLOOKUP formula while setting custom separators in German culture is fixed.
* \#204947 - Exception thrown while opening Excel document with duplicate attributes is resolved.
* \#212300 - Null reference exception is no longer thrown while add copying the workbook with invalid sheet references.
* \#212300 - File corruption issue while copying a range having named range formula referring to External workbook is resolved.
* \#213242 - Chart default axis title area text settings and text box properties are now cloned properly in XlsIO.
* \#213274 - `StandardHeight` is now properly set for XlsIO generated Excel documents.
* \#213608 - Incorrect `RichText` format while saving the Excel document is fixed.
* \#213658 - Null reference exception thrown while getting `ListOfValues` property of Data Validation is fixed
* \#213658 - `NumberFormatSettings` returning null value while accessing particular range is fixed.
* \#213658 - Issue with `FirstFormula` property of Data Validation in binary Excel files is fixed.
* \#213819 - `DeleteColumn` method works properly for CSV file.
* \#214098 - Issue in setting Maximum labels count for chart numeric axis in chart to image conversion is fixed.
* \#214495 - Issue with slicer getting removed on saving the file in Excel 2007 version is fixed.
* \#214638 - Excel file with incorrect anchor type for shapes is resaved properly without any corruption.
* \#214638 - Excel file with text box is resaved properly in Excel 2007 version without any corruption
* \#214879 - Exception thrown while parsing the named range formula without worksheet reference is resolved.
* \#214915 - Enabling `WrapText` property will no longer throw exception during `BeginUpdate()`.
* \#214924 - Excel file with conditional formats is resaved properly without any corruption.
* \#215001 - Issue with horizontal alignment for textbox is resolved.
* \#215030 - Null reference exception thrown on casting chart data label as text area on parsing Excel file is fixed.
* \#215185 - Text box color and macro link are properly resaved in the Excel document.
* \#215197 - Issue with changing legend position from manual layout is fixed.
* \#215350 - Special characters (Ampersand and less-than symbols) can be used in `HTMLString` property without any exception.
* \#215591 - Issue with copying borders in merged cells is fixed.
* \#215649 - Date format is now preserved properly when creating Excel from data table.
* \#216094 - ArgumentException thrown while assigning "/" as cell value is fixed.
* \#216187,* \#214895 - Performance issue while inserting rows is resolved.
* \#216305 - `AutoFitColumn` now works properly for currency values.
* ArgumentException thrown while accessing used range having styles alone is fixed.
* Border set to a cell through `BordersAround` method is now applied properly.
* Unhandled exception thrown while opening an Excel file with duplicate shape attribute is fixed.
