---
title: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2019 volume 4 SP1 Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2019 volume 4 SP1 Release Notes  
platform: aspnet-core
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="January 30, 2020"  version="v17.4.0.46" %} 







## DocIO

No Changes for this product in this version.

[//]: # "Delete the contents of this file while new content is added."

## PDF

### Bug Fixes
{:#PDF-bug-fixes}

* \#257443 – PDF page size will be preserved properly when appending two documents with different page size.
* \#256504 – Word to PDF conversion will be working properly with particular document. 
* \#257413 – The `NullReferenceException` no longer occurs while enabling LTV for store certificates. 
* \#257673 – The `FileNotFoundException` no longer occurs with XmlSerializer on XPS to PDF conversion. 
* \#259787 – `PdfAnnotation` will be flattened with proper borders.
* \#259394 – `PdfInkAnnotation` will be flattened properly. 
* \#256196 – The `OutOfMemoryException` no longer occurs while saving a large PDF document.
* \#256196 – Performance of remove layer functionality is optimized now. 
* \#257531 – Layers will be removed properly in PDF documents. 
* \#136014 – Paragraph inside the table cell will be preserved properly in Word to PDF conversion. 
* \#255677, \#257428 – EMF files will be rendered properly in `PdfDocument` on .NET Core 3.0.
* \#260424 – The `NullReferenceException` no longer occurs while saving a PDF document multiple times. 
* \#252711 – Image will be preserved properly while drawing it to PDF document. 
* \#255550 – The `EndOfStreamException` no longer occurs while drawing image to PDF document. 
* \#260117 – `PdfUriAnnotation` will be preserved properly with provided string format in `PdfGrid`.
* \#251733 – `PdfCodeUPCBarcode` will be preserved properly with provided dimension. 
* \#257221 – `PdfTextBoxField` will be preserved properly with `AutoFontSize` and Multiline options.
* \#256614 – `BackColor` will be preserved properly in PDF 2D barcodes. 
* \#255136 – The `DateTimeInvalidLocalFormat` exception no longer occurs when creating a PDF A document.  
* \#F144285 – `PdfSignature` appearance will be preserved properly based on the page rotation. 

## Presentation

### Bug Fixes
{:#Presentation-bug-fixes}

* \#250406 - The **PdfException** will no longer be thrown while converting a PowerPoint presentation to PDF.
* \#257963 - The **NullReferenceException** will no longer be thrown while cloning a PowerPoint slide with hyperlink.
* The **ArgumentException** will no longer be thrown while setting an invalid link or path as hyperlink.


## XlsIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#257403 - Cells in the Excel output are properly formatted when importing POCO with nullable fields.
* \#256142 - Shapes are positioned properly after hiding the rows.
* \#250406 - Exception will no longer be thrown on parsing the named range.
* \#245527 - Accounting format is now set properly for the cell when number is set to 0.0.
* \#257296 - Creating a chart with double values in German culture no longer gives corrupted output.
* \#257771 - Conditional formatting formula is now set properly for XLSX versions.
* \#257476 - Exception is no longer raised while opening the Excel document with large number of rows and columns.
* \#257356 - Exception is no longer thrown while copying the worksheet using `AddCopy()` method with `ParseOnDemand` option.
* \#258536 - Formatting in output file is now proper while copying all the worksheets to another workbook using `AddCopy()` method.
* \#258419 - Page break is now correct when page setup has FitToPage in Excel to PDF conversion.
* \#255317 - RTF alignment is now proper in text boxes.
* \#257864 - Chart legend with Arabic text is now rendered properly in Excel to PDF conversion.
* \#249446 - Page content is no longer cropped while converting the Excel document into PDF with custom scaling.
* \#259825 - Table style options are now preserved properly while resaving the Excel document.
* \#258600 – XlsIO generated HTML files are now showing properly in Microsoft Edge browser.
* \#252205 - Column width is now preserved properly in Excel to PDF conversion.
* \#258534 – Excel file will no longer hang on parsing conditional formats.
* \#258419 - Borders are now preserved properly in Excel to PDF conversion when different line styles are applied in the same cell.
* \#258722 - The issue with Font size that is getting changed while copying the worksheet is fixed.
* \#255781 - Excel file is no longer corrupted when resaving the document with extension list.
* \#257358 - Issue with applying the tabular row layout to pivot fields layout is fixed.
* \#260561 - Refer to range no longer throws exception after getting display text.
* \#250513 - Performance of opening the XLS file with comments is improved.
* \#256286 - Chart axis line and label are now rendered separately in chart to image conversion.  
* \#258419 - Custom scaling is now proper in Excel to PDF conversion.
* \#F149527 - Conditional format is now preserved properly in the newly added worksheet when saving the workbook twice.
* \#F149617 - Vertical page break for Arial font is now correct in Excel to PDF conversion.
* \#F149959 – The ArgumentOutOfRangeException is no longer thrown while opening the Excel file in Ubuntu.
* \#F149932 - Chart legend is rendered properly while converting chart to image.
* Issue with incorrect cell value in Excel to PDF conversion is fixed.
* Starting page number is now correct in Excel to PDF conversion.
* Split text starting position is now correct in Excel to PDF conversion.
* AutoShape border is rendered properly in Excel to PDF conversion.
* Shape text is now proper in Excel to PDF conversion.
* Conditional format icon for discontinuous ranges is now proper in Excel to PDF conversion.
* White font color for cells is now applied properly in Excel to PDF conversion.
* Textbox fill and border colors are now preserved properly while resaving the Excel document.
* Range intersection works properly for the entire row and column.
* Conditional format icon is now proper for negative cell values in Excel to PDF conversion.
* CF number format is properly applied in Excel to PDF conversion.
* Strike through is properly applied for header in Excel to PDF conversion.
* Excel file having conditional format with negative priority is now properly converted to PDF.
* Shrink to fit is now working for numbers in Excel to PDF conversion.

