---
title: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2019 Volume 1 beta release Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2019 Volume 1 beta release Release Notes  
platform: aspnet-core
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core  Release Notes(Beta)  

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2019_vol_1_beta  version="v17.1.0.32" %} 






## Chart

### Breaking Changes
{:#chart-breaking-changes}

* \#226714 - The value type of the `Start` and `End` properties in `StripLine` has been changed from Double to Object to accept all the values.

### Features
{:#chart-features}

* \#218167 - Provided the support to rotate the axis label based on different text anchor position.

### Bug Fixes
{:#chart-bug-fixes}

* \#226714 - Now, [`stripline`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-stripline) will be rendered properly for datetime axis.
* \#225792 - Now, [`RangeArea`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-type) series will be rendered properly with empty point.
* \#142405 - Resolved the implicitly declared variables in global scope.



## Common

### Features
{:#Common-features}

* Provided the support for .NET Core 3.0.    
* Provided the project template support for Visual Studio 2019.

### Breaking changes
{:#common-breaking-changes}

* Syncfusion has modified the names of the NuGet packages with framework targeted assemblies in `EJ.Export` package.
  
If you are using old NuGet packages listed here, please uninstall them and install the corresponding new NuGet packages.


| Old NuGet package names (till v16.4.0.54) | New NuGet packages names (from v17.1.0.32) |
 --- | --- |
|Syncfusion.Pdf.Net.Core|Syncfusion.Pdf.Net|
|Syncfusion.XlsIO.Net.Core|Syncfusion.XlsIO.Net|
|Syncfusion.DocIO.Net.Core|Syncfusion.DocIO.Net|

## Diagram

### Features
{:#diagram-features}

* \#219437 - Support to flip a node/connector in both horizontal and vertical directions is added.
## DocIO

### Features
{:#DocIO-features}

* \#225207 - Support has been added to preserve chart while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#215654, \#215551, \#217709, \#217596, \#213468, \#220078, \#221808, \#218691, \#221806, \#220279, \#218691, \#223653 - Improved text size calculation in Word to PDF conversion.
* \#219302, \#224607, \#224937 - Improved font retrieval and substitution algorithm in Word to PDF conversion.
* \#224654 – API has been added to set created date and time for Word document comments.
* \#223907 - API has been added to skip the **Complex format is not supported** exception while opening an incrementally saved DOC format Word document.


### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#221972 - Text is now highlighted properly while converting a Word document to tagged PDF.
* \#223350 - Table cell is now preserved properly while opening an HTML document.
* \#222922 - Image is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#222713 - The **ArgumentException** will no longer be thrown while adding a table.
* \#222608 - Font name is now preserved properly while converting an HTML document to Word document.
* \#222751 - The **StackOverFlowException** will no longer be thrown while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#222670 - Inline content control text is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#222320 - Hyperlink is now preserved properly in inline content control while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#222345 - The **ArgumentOutOfRangeException** will no longer be thrown while updating TOC in RTF format document.
* \#221260 - Line space preservation issue has been resolved While converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#221153 - Inline content control custom XML data is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#221725 - The **ArgumentOutOfRangeException** will no longer be thrown while cloning a Word document.
* \#221611 - The **NullReferenceException** will no longer be thrown while saving a Word document.
* \#220710 - Table row is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#220324 - Checkbox content control state is now preserved properly while cloning a Word document.
* \#221119 - List number is now preserved properly while opening an RTF format document.
* \#218943 - List bullet is now preserved properly while opening an RTF format document.
* \#221974 - Gray scale recoloring is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#219092 - Merge field before and after text is now preserved properly while executing mail merge.
* \#223340 - The **IndexOutOfRangeException** will no longer be thrown while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#222852 - Footer content is now preserved properly while merging multiple RTF documents.
* \#223355 - Tab is now preserved properly while converting a cloned Word document to Image.
* \#223510 - Text overlapping issue has been resolved while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#223931 - The **ArgumentException** will no longer be thrown while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#222588 - Formula field result is now preserved properly while updating the Word document fields.
* \#224323, \#225518, \#225883 - The **NullReferenceException** will no longer be thrown while calling the GetText API.
* \#224412 - Tab is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#224287 - Image is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#223508 - Word document instance is now disposed properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#225386 - Page field is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#225611, \#225386 - Table content is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#218799 - Pagination issue has been resolved while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#224351, \#224561 - Inline content control's text is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#224062, \#226901 - Table border is now preserved properly while converting a Word document as RTF.
* \#226599, \#226243, \#220279 - Table is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#226599, \#226243, \#225970, \#225679, \#226352, \#223713, \#223959, \#224412, \#221455 - Hanging issue has been resolved while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#226243 - Frame content is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#227112 - The **NullReferenceException** will no longer be thrown while updating the Word document fields.
* \#224637 - Picture preservation issue has been resolved while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#225091 - Check box is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#225458, \#223134 - Table row border is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#225091 - Underline is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#224701 - Univers 45 Light font is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#225176 - Image is now preserved properly while converting the RTF document to HTML.
* \#226725 - Embedded Microsoft Visio (VSDX) object is now preserved properly in DOCX to DOCX conversion.
* \#220362 - Picture watermark is now preserved properly while resaving the RTF document. 
* \#225947 - Number format is now preserved properly while performing Mail merge.
* \#225062 - Image is now preserved properly while importing a Word document.
* \#218957, \#220198 - The **ArgumentException** will no longer be thrown while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#225481 - The **NotSupportedException** will no longer be thrown while opening an HTML document.
* \#225481 - Image size is now preserved properly while opening an HTML document.
* \#225481 - Table border is now preserved properly while opening an HTML document.

## Gantt

### Features
{:#gantt-features}

* \#206486, \#222896, \#226182 - The Gantt control now provides support for quarter year and half year timeline views.

### Bug Fixes
{:#gantt-bug-fixes}

* \#226182 - Now it is possible to export the Gantt to PDF file in 24 hour working timescale without any issues.
## PDF

### Features
{:#pdf-features}

*	\#136187 - Added support to create the ZUGFeRD PDF invoice.
*	\#135996, \#179159, \#124105 - Added support to create the PDF/A-2b and PDF/A-3b conformance level document.
*	\#222759, \#226015 - Added support to import and export a PDF annotation with FDF and XFDF formats.
*	\#223208 - Added support to fill both XFA and acroform fields with sample API.
*	Added support to rotate annotations.
*	\#220871 - Added support to retrieve the acroform radio button option values.
*	\#141170, \#222335, \#223048 - Added support to retrieve review status and comments from a PDF annotation.
*	\#221779 - Added support to update the layout result.
*	\#194410, \#198765 - Added support to create an ink annotation with ink list collection.
*	\#141253 - Added support to create multiple range of page labels.
*	\#223924 - Added support to retrieve certificate details from the existing signed PDF.
*	\#223970 - Added support to clear the XFA date time field value.
*	\#227357 - Added option value support to import and export the radio button field.

### Breaking Changes
{:#pdf-breaking-changes}

*	\223629 – Now, by default, `EnableMemoryOptimization` is set to false when append the PDF files, so close the existing PDF document after saving the new PDF document.
*	Free text annotation call-out line coordinate points are now changed to top to bottom.
*	Annotations are now rotating based on the page rotation in an existing PDF document.

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

*	\#215133 - Performance has been improved when accessing the PDF document layers.
*	\#210943, \#216074 - String was not recognized as a valid DateTime exception will no longer occur while loading a PDF document.
*	\#215941 - Barcode is now preserving with proper size when specifying the size of a barcode.
*	\#215595 - The 1D barcode is now scanning properly with default width.
*	\#215096 - FNC characters in the given input is now preserving properly for `PdfGS1Code128Barcode`.
*	\#215166 - The Null-reference exception will no longer occur while loading a PDF document.
*	\#214918 - Light table header is now preserving properly when providing the data source through `IEnumerable`.
*	\#214401 - The ArgumentException will no longer occur when loading a PDF document.
*	\#219778 - Object reference not set to an instance of an object exception will no longer occur when saving the `PdfInkAnnotation`.
*	\#217829 - Index was outside the bounds of the array exception will no longer occur when loading the PDF document.
*	\#220618 - "Object reference not set to an instance of an object exception will no longer occur when creating PDF signature..
*	\#219990 - Text mark annotation is now preserving properly when flatten the PDF document.
*	\#216035, \#216282, \#218691, \#218840, \#219302, \#18871, \#221074, \#221063 - Unicode texts are now preserving properly when converting Word to PDF.
*	\#219468 - RTL texts are now preserving properly in Word when converting to PDF.
*	\#217865 - NullReferenceException will no longer occur while removing custom metadata entries.
*	\#218695 - Bookmark destination is now preserving properly after reading the bookmark.
*	\#218348 - Gap between barcode data sections is now preserving properly when drawing 1D barcode to PDF.
*	\#218231 - The `PdfCode128Barcode` Size property is now working properly.
*	\#218235 - Barcodes are now preserving properly with its default size.
*	\#218230 - Exception will no longer occur when getting the size of the `PdfCode128Barcode`.
*	\#217889 - The PDF document is now preserving properly when drawing a string with OTF font.
*	\#219709 - Object reference not set instance of an object exception will no longer occur when drawing `PdfGrid` in a PDF.
*	\#218192, \#218299 - NullReferenceException will no longer occur when saving the document with `EnableValidationAppearance`.

*	\#227081 – Row span is now applying properly in `PdfGrid` header.
*	\#224992, \#225719 – Argument out of range exception will no longer occurs when importing pages from a PDF document.
*	\#227605 – Border width is now retrieving properly from the free text annotation.
*	\#226916 – Documents will no longer be corrupted when creating PDF template from imported PDF document.
*	\#226124 - PDF lexer issues are now thrown with `PdfException`.
*	\#227048 - Form fields are now preserving properly while resaving the existing XFA document.
*	\#226167 – PDF documents will no longer be corrupted after modifying the PDF document information.
*	\#226393 – Form fields are now filling properly when importing XFDF document to fill XFA document.
*	\#221393, \#221376 – Memory leaks will no longer occurs when converting Word document to PDF.
*	\#225910 – The "PathException" will no longer occurs while retrieving custom metadata from an existing PDF document.
*	\#225853 – Display date format is now preserving properly while filling the `PdfLoadedXfaDateTimeField`.
*	\#225896 – "ArgumentOutOfRangeException" will no longer occurs while importing the PDF document.
*	\#222797, \#225325 – Vertical alignment of the Thai language text is now preserving properly.
*	\#223629 – Performance of the PDF append method is now improved.
*	\#224583 – Font size is now preserving properly in combo box field.
*	\#224603 – Null reference exception will no longer occurs while merging certain PDF documents.
*	\#223346 – Images are now preserving properly while encrypting the PDF document.
*	\#224531 – Null reference exception will no longer occurs while saving the PDF document.
*	\#224269 – Free text annotation’s properties are now retrieving properly.
*	\#221805 – Fonts are now embedding properly in conformance enabled PDF document.
*	\#141148 – Tool tip is now changing as expected for `PdfSignatureField`.
*	\#219569 – Arithmetic overflow exception will no longer occurs while signing the PDF document.
*	\#185722 – PDF document content is now preserving properly after merging the PDF files.
*	\#224887 – Added PDF signatures are now valid.
*	\#221808, \#205098 – Text is now preserving properly while converting Word document to PDF.
*	\#225055 – The bounds are now retrieving properly from `PdfLoadedTextBoxField`.
*	\#225055 – RTL text is now preserving properly in PDF form fields.








## PivotClient

### Features
{:#pivotclient-features}

* \#195204 - Provided support to change aggregation types dynamically with UI interaction via the pivot button context menu.

### Bug fixes
{:#pivotclient-bug-fixes}

* \#228198 - JSON-based exporting works properly when formatting field is set to empty. 

## PivotGrid

### Features
{:#pivotgrid-features}

* \#204545, #225528 - Provided support to export pivot grid information without subtotals and grand totals.

## Presentation

### Features
{:#presentation-features}

* \#220046 - Support has been added to convert PowerPoint presentation to Image in ASP.NET Core applications.
* \#220046 - Support has been added to convert PowerPoint presentation to PDF document in ASP.NET Core applications.
* \#227243 - Support has been added to add the OLE Object into PowerPoint slide as link.

### Bug Fixes
{:#Presentation-bug-fixes}

* \#224226 - Application will no more hang while adding an image to a PowerPoint slide.
* \#225390 - PowerPoint file will no longer get corrupted while resaving multiple times with charts.
* \#222440 - Notes in a PowerPoint slide can now be cloned and added to another slide.


## ReportDesigner `Preview`

### Features
{:#reportdesigner-features}

* \#140559 and #222739 – Provided list report item support to create free-form layout in reports.
* \#209470 - Provided custom code support.
* \#222739 and #139940 – Provided the necessary APIs to programmatically handle the data source and dataset options.
* \#222138 - Provided reordering support for report parameters.
* Provided an option to order the layout of report items in the design area.

### Bug Fixes
{:#reportdesigner-bug-fixes}

* \#229302 - Fixed the undefined issue with the headers property when uploading an image using the image manager.
* \#227493 – Now, expressions can be set for the subreport item in the visibility property.
* \#142413 - Fixed the report parameter layout tag creation issue when creating parameters in the report.
* \#226659 - Fixed the header color and column span properties’ serialization issue in the grid report item.
* \#226659 and #223252 - Fixed the issues with the textbox report item’s expression option.
* \#223797 - Fixed the image upload issue when the file name contains Unicode values.
* \#222796 - Fixed the summary row property disabling issue in the grid report item.
* \#226659 - Fixed the issue with populating the text alignment property in the grid report item.
* \#222888 - Resolved the console errors thrown when applying font sizes continuously for the selected text in the text box report item.
* \#221279 - Resolved the issue with inheriting the alternate row cell properties from the cell styles in the grid report item.
* \#221279 - Fixed the column resizing issue in the grid report item.
* \#223348 - Fixed the parameter type conversion failure in dataset query.
## ReportViewer

### Features
{:#reportviewer-features}



### Bug Fixes
{:#reportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#F142783, \#229320 – Resolved NRE exception when Report Viewer is initially loaded in the print layout.
* \#227371 – Now, the SQL datasource report is rendering properly in Report Viewer when loaded with .NET Framework 4.7.2.
* \#227785, \#228839 - Now, the sub report renders properly from the 2017 SSRS server.
* \#218557 – Resolved the empty file creation when exporting the report from core application with .NET Framework using NuGet.
## Spreadsheet

### Features
{:#spreadsheet-features}

* Provided import/export support for charts with Trendlines.
* Provided support to highlight the invalid data while updating the value in validation applied cells.
* Provided custom format support for negative numbers.
* Provided cellSave event support, whenever the cell value changed in the spreadsheet.
* Provided the performance improvements while scrolling with applied freeze pane.
* Provided support for add table references in name manager collection while importing.

## XlsIO

### Features
{:#xlsio-features}

* \#F99670, \#185459, \#194756, \#197860 - Added support for custom table styles in Excel.
* \#128585, \#132019, \#224861 - Provided support to format unique and duplicate values in conditional formatting.
* \#199594, \#199992, \#206375, \#206374, \#209766, \#F139259, \#218497, \#225207 - Provided support for chart to image/PDF conversion in .NET Standard.
* \#222797 - Added support for complex script rendering in Excel to PDF conversion.
* Provided support for PDF conformance level in Excel to PDF conversion.
* Added support for Excel 2019 version in XlsIO.

### Breaking Changes
{:#xlsio-breaking-changes}

* \#F99670, \#185459, \#194756, \#197860 - The `TableStyles` property is added in `IWorkbook` interface to get the table styles collection for adding custom table styles.
* \#128585, \#132019, \#224861 - The `Unique` and `Duplicate` types are included in `ExcelCFType` enumeration to highlight the cells with unique and duplicate values using conditional formatting feature.
* \#199594, \#199992, \#206375, \#206374, \#209766, \#F139259, \#218497, \#225207 - Added `ExportChartImageOptions` property and `ConvertToPDF()` and `ConvertToImage()` methods in `IXlsIORenderer` class and `SaveAsImage()` method in `IChart` interface.
* \#222797 - `AutoDetectComplexScript` has been added in `ExcelToPdfConverterSettings` class to support complex script rendering in Excel to PDF conversion.
* Enumeration `PdfConformanceLevel` is added in `ExcelToPdfConverterSettings` class to set conformance level in PDF document that is converted from Excel.
* Type `Xlsx` is added in `ExcelVersion` enumeration to represent Excel version 2019 and above.


### Bug Fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#222397, \#222732 - Table with query is now preserved properly on invoking `Table.Refresh()`.
* \#223856, \#224976 - File will no longer be corrupted while copying a range with multiple list objects.
* \#226454 - The IndexOutOfRange exception will no longer be thrown while converting Excel document into PDF with header and footer.
* \#224770 - Exception will no longer be thrown while exporting worksheet data into data table.
* \#223667 - Exception will no longer be thrown if chart's data range column is deleted.
* \#225065 - Currency number format is now properly detected in XlsIO generated Excel file.
* \#224023 - Exception thrown while opening an XlsIO re-saved document with group shape has been resolved.
* \#223946 - Conditional format is now preserved properly while saving the workbook multiple times.
* \#223839 - Infinite recursive loop on modifying and saving Excel document with improper chart series indices has been resolved.
* \#224024 - Not implemented exception thrown while opening an Excel document with external formula range in check box has been fixed.
* \#223448 - Pivot table field settings are now preserved properly on resaving the Excel file.
* \#223167 - Custom time format [h]:mm:ss is now detected automatically.
* \#223376 - Exception occurs while saving the Excel document with OLE object has been resolved.
* \#223226 - The NullReferenceException thrown when converting an Excel file to HTML has been fixed.
* \#223041 - Data validation formula is now preserved properly while saving the Excel document as XML.
* \#221229 - Issue with pivot field values due to improper pivot field data format has been resolved.
* \#214445 - `Table.Refresh()` is now working properly with ODBC connection.
* \#223918 - Conditional format is now preserved properly on converting Excel document to PDF.
* \#223859 - Hyperlink is now set properly in Excel to PDF conversion.
* \#221079 - Exception thrown if print-title row height is higher in Excel to PDF conversion has been fixed.
* \#221693 - The Parameter invalid exception thrown while converting Excel document to PDF has been fixed.
* \#222797 - Incorrect Thai font in Excel to PDF conversion has been fixed.
* \#222156 - Improper number detection with invariant culture has been fixed.
* \#F141101 - Issue with incorrect parsing of comments has been resolved.
* Issue with incorrect conditional formatting operator type in resaved Excel document has been fixed.
* Setting a table column header name will no longer corrupt the Excel document.
* DataBar color is now applied properly for negative values.
* External formula is now applied properly in .NET Standard.
* Shapes rendering issue for curved shapes in Presentation to Image conversion has been fixed.
