---
title: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Weekly Nuget Release Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Weekly Nuget Release Release Notes  
platform: aspnet-core
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="April 9,2019"  version="v17.1.0.40" %} 






## DocIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#230678, \#228611 - The **NullReferenceException** will no longer be thrown while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#229738 - Text is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#229094, \#F142888 - Table cell borders are now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#228272 - Table border is now preserved properly in RTF to PDF conversion.
* \#227754 - Multiple TOC page numbers are updated properly while calling UpdateTableOfContents method.
* \#228968 - Hanging issue has been resolved while updating the Word document fields.
* \#229891 - Hanging issue has been resolved while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#231594 - Dropdown form field is now preserved properly while converting an HTML to RTF format document.
* \#226490 - Corruption issue has been resolved while saving the DOCX format Word document.
* \#212671, \#212772, \#220859, \#230072, \#232381 - List style name is now updated properly while opening and saving a Word document.
* \#225752, \#230460, \#230460 - Line space preservation issue has been resolved when updating a Word document fields.
* \#228319 - Page border is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#228049 - Table left indent value is now updated properly while opening an RTF document.
* \#228510, \#232429 - JPEG Image is now preserved properly while parsing and serializing a Word document.
* \#230017 - 'HtmlExportOmitXmlDeclaration' API is now working properly while converting a Word document to HTML.
* \#F142502 - Empty groups are now removed properly while performing Mail merge.




## pdf

No Changes for this product in this version.

[//]: # "Delete the contents of this file while new content is added."

## Presentation

No Changes for this product in this version.

[//]: # "Delete the contents of this file while new content is added."

## ReportViewer

### Bug Fixes
{:#reportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#230948 - Resolved serialization problem in Report Viewer when the chart title hidden property value is specified as expression.
* \#227904 - Resolved scope exception when report variables used inside aggregate function.
* \#226039 - Now, the chart will be rendered properly in Report Viewer if chart category field contains a null value.
* \#230719 - The NullReferenceException thrown when rendering a report with image report item inside inner tablix has been fixed.
## XlsIO

### Features
{:#xlsio-features}

* \#227983 - Exception, "Text length cannot be more than 32767" can be ignored using `ExcludeAdditionalCharacters` flag.

### Breaking Changes
{:#xlsio-breaking-changes}

* \#227983 - `ExcludeAdditionalCharacters` has been added in `IApplication` class to ignore exception and exclude characters more than 32767 (maximum allowed characters) in a cell text.


### Bug Fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#229121 - Picture name is now updated proper after removing a picture and inserting a new picture.
* \#226753 - Exception is no longer thrown while opening Excel file with formula in Dutch culture.
* \#230294 - Picture created with camera tool is now properly changed with INDIRECT() formula.
* \#230697 - After accessing the used range, relative range indexer is now working proper.
* \#231469 - Application no longer hangs while opening Excel file with picture that has unsupported element.
* \#226860 - Performance will not degrade on exporting a range to a data table multiple times.

