---
title: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Weekly Nuget release Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Weekly Nuget release Release Notes  
platform: aspnet-core
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="May 21, 2019"  version="v17.1.0.48" %} 






## DocIO

No Changes for this product in this version.

[//]: # "Delete the contents of this file while new content is added."

## pdf

No Changes for this product in this version.

[//]: # "Delete the contents of this file while new content is added."

## Presentation

### Bug Fixes
{:#Presentation-bug-fixes}

* \#233799 - The NullReferenceException will no longer be thrown while cloning OLE Object in master slide.
## ReportViewer

### Bug Fixes
{:#reportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#232958 - The issue “Drillthrough is not working when the child report does not have any parameters” has been resolved.
* \#230719 - The issue “Invalid expression exception occurs when null value passed to one of the field in arithmetic operations in Report Viewer” has been resolved.
* \#212480 - The issue “IFF function evaluation does not consider the flag values (0, 1)” has been resolved.
* \#231759 - The issue “Tablix row height is increased in Report Viewer when compared to design size” has been resolved.
* \#229607 - The issue “RowNumber(Nothing) expression value changes continuously when refresh the report in Report Viewer” has been resolved.
* \#229244 - The issue “Line report item not rendered in Report Viewer with exact size value” has been resolved.
* \#229320, #F142783, - The issue “NRE raised when Report Viewer is initially loaded in print layout” has been resolved.
## XlsIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#227410 - Pivot table field item is now preserved properly while re-saving the Excel file with IsRefreshOnLoad property.
* \#235570 - Exception is no longer thrown when setting date time value in general format without having date separators.
* \#233740 - Exception is no longer thrown on converting Excel to PDF with Doughnut chart.
