---
title: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2021 Volume 4 Service Pack Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2021 Volume 4 Service Pack Release Notes  
platform: aspnet-core
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="January 31, 2022"  version="v19.4.0.48" %} 





## DocIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#F171702, \#I361312 - Inline content control is now preserved properly while resaving a DOCX format document.
* \#I358489 - Text is now preserved properly while merging a DOCX format document to DOC format document.
* \#I358177 - The **ArgumentException** will no longer be thrown while opening a DOC format document.
* \#I357851 - The **NullReferenceException** will no longer be thrown while opening a Word document.
* \#I358188 - Document will no longer be corrupted while applying shape line format.
* \#I357644 - Image is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I349310, \#I349307, \#I356460, \#I344316, \#I347339, \#I178572 - Table is now preserved properly while converting a DOCX format document to PDF.
* \#I348931 - Headers and Footers are now preserved properly while resaving a DOCX format document.
* \#I360176 - If field is now updated properly while calling `UpdateDocumentFields()` method.
* \#I345909 - Bookmark end is now preserved properly in Word document.
* \#I358077 - Mutated text is now preserved properly while resaving a DOC format document.
* \#I357214 - HTML tags are now preserved properly while converting a DOCX format document to HTML.
* \#I348841 - The **XmlException** will no longer be thrown while converting a DOCX format document to HTML.
* \#I362925 - Picture within frame is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I361410 - Footer content is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I359041 - Text is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I357738 - The **NullReferenceException** will no longer be thrown while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I356590 - The **ArgumentOutOfRangeException** will no longer be thrown while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I349107 - Font substitution event is now working properly for Chinese fonts while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I358294 - Vertical text is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I357661 - Font substitution event is now working properly for "BoldItalic" style while converting a Word document to PDF.
* Hanging issue has been resolved while opening a DOCX format document.
* Paragraph is now aligned properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* The **ObjectDisposedException** will no longer be thrown converting a Word document to PDF.
## PDF

### Bug Fixes
{:#PDF-bug-fixes}

* \#I349327 - The resultant document will no longer be corrupted while rescaling the page size on the existing PDF document.
* \#I361258 - The fatal exception will no longer occur while performing regression tests.
* \#I355933 - The signature auto validation appearance and position are now properly shown in the Foxit Reader.
* \#I361061 - Annotations are now removed properly when flattening the annotation from an existing PDF document.
* \#I360261 - Metadata is now manually updated properly after accessing the loaded conformance document.
* \#I357093 - Annotations are now removed properly while flattening the free text annotation in the given PDF document.
* \#I359568 - The TextBoxField value is now shown properly when parsing the form field values from the PDF document.
* \#I358275 - A runtime exception is now resolved when merging the input documents with the newly added bookmark.
* \#I361794 - The calendar control panel is flattened properly when flattening a PDF document.
* \#I360154 - An exception no longer occurs when disposing of the font from multiple instance files.
* \#I356437 - The signature validation appearance tick mark is shown properly on the rotated PDF document.
* \#I356519 - An exception no longer occurs when adding the TimeStamp server to PdfSignature.
* \#I361262 - An unexpected token exception no longer occurs when opening a PDF document with open and repair mode.
* \#I358934 - The saved document size is increased problem is resolved when the SetDefaultAppearance is disabled for form fields.
* \#I359489 - Performance has been improved while flattening annotation in a PDF document.
* \#I359488 - An exception is thrown properly for the offset corrupted PDF document.
* \#I359164 - The layout line result is proper when the text starts with a space character.
* \#I358302 - Duplicated the first page added issue while no longer occurs when creating the Pdftemplate and drawing it from an existing PDF document.
* \#I358346 - The Text rendering issue will no longer while flatting the textbox field in a PDF document.
* \#I359287 - The Caret annotation is removed properly after flattening annotation from a PDF document.
* \#F171198 - The cell clipping issue will no longer occur when drawing a PDF grid with row height on the nested grid.
* \#I359488 - An exception is thrown properly for offset corrupted PDF documents.
* Line annotation symbol is now preserved properly in the comments.

### Features
{:#PDF-features}

* \#I362189 - Added the support to get annotation type and creation date using the PdfLoadedAnnotation.
* \#I361251 - Added the support for converting the PDFA document to a PDF document.
## Presentation

### Bug Fixes
{:#Presentation-bug-fixes}

* \#I358669 - The **FormatException** will no longer be thrown while converting a PowerPoint presentation to image.
* \#I361091 - The PowerPoint presentation will no longer be corrupted while resaving a PPTM format document.
## XlsIO

No Changes for this product in this version.

[//]: # "Delete the contents of this file while new content is added."

