---
title: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2021 Volume 4 Main Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core 2021 Volume 4 Main Release Notes  
platform: aspnet-core
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="December 17, 2021"  version="v19.4.0.38" %} 






## DocIO

### Features
{:#DocIO-features}

* \#I322051, \#I335840, \#I290987, \#I345474 - Improved Unicode text measuring algorithm in Word to PDF conversion.
* \#FB30078 - Provided an API to update Page and NumPages fields in a Word document.

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#I349086 - Hyperlink is now preserved properly while resaving a DOCX format document.
* \#I348691 - Tab position is now preserved properly while resaving a RTF format document.
* \#I348161 - List numbers are now preserved properly while converting a DOCX format document to text file.
* \#F170251, \#I348826 - Chinese text is now preserved properly while resaving a RTF format document.
* \#I347916 - The **ArgumentException** will no longer be thrown while opening a DOC format document.
* \#I347545, \#SF-354787 - Text is now preserved properly while merging the DOC format documents.
* \#I345869 - Textbox is now preserved properly when saving a DOCX format document in German culture.
* \#I346276 - List level is now parsed properly while opening a RTF format document.
* \#I344080, \#I344850 - Document will no longer corrupted while resaving a DOCX format document.
* \#I346276, \#I348026 - The **ArgumentException** will no longer be thrown while opening a RTF format document.
* \#I346159, \#I346140 - Hanging issue has been resolved while opening a DOCX format document.
* \#FB28410 - Text in mapped content control are updated properly in DOCX format document.
* \#I343242 - SET Field with Formula fields are now update properly while calling `UpdateDocumentFields()` method.
* \#I349104, \#SF-356256 - The **ArgumentException** will no longer be thrown while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I349096 - The **IndexOutOfRangeException** will no longer be thrown while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I349308 - Floating items are now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I348923 - The **ArgumentOutOfRangeException** will no longer be thrown while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I347437 - Text is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I347608 - Textbox is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I344573, \#I347338, \#I347415 - Frame is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#FB29888 - TOC page numbers are now updated properly after calling `UpdateTableOfContents()` method.
* \#FB29855 - Highlight color is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I347411 - The **IndexOutOfRangeException** will no longer be thrown converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I346606, \#I346489, \#SF-353711 - Hanging issue has been resolved while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I345986 - Hanging issue has been resolved while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I345489 - The **ArgumentException** will no longer be thrown while converting a DOCX format document to PDF.
* \#F169301 - Table is now preserved properly while converting a DOCX format document to PDF.
* \#I346687 - Paragraph is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I347662 - The **NullReferenceException** will no longer be thrown while converting a Word document to PDF in Linux Docker or AWS Lambda.
* \#I345503, \#I345591 - Shape is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I343365 - Image is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to HTML.
* \#I344080 - Document will no longer be corrupted while resaving a DOCX format document.
* \#FB28940 - TOC navigation is now working properly while resaving a DOCX format document.
* \#I341105 - The **StackOverflowException** will no longer be thrown while calling `AcceptChanges()` method.
* \#I342621 - Hanging issue has been resolved while opening a DOCX format document.
* \#I343124 - Shape and image are now preserved properly while resaving a RTF format document.
* \#I341909 - The **XMLException** will no longer be thrown while opening a DOCX format document.
* \#FB28776 - The **InvalidOperationException** will no longer be thrown while removing a style from a Word document.
* \#FB28166 - IF field is now updated properly while calling `UpdateDocumentFields()` method.
* \#F168614, \#FB28165 - The **InvalidOperationException** will no longer be thrown while resaving a DOCX format document.
* \#I343605 - The **NullReferenceException** will no longer be thrown while opening a Word document.
* \#I343856 - Text is now preserved properly while resaving a RTF format document.
* \#I345610 - Bullet character is now preserved properly in tagged PDF while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I345585 - The **OutOfMemoryException** will no longer be thrown while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I344763, \#I345120, \#I345457, \#I343961, \#I343550, \#I344476 - Text is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I344573 - Frame is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I344575, \#I344834 - Text box is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#FB29344 - Content control is now preserved properly while resaving a DOCX format document.
* \#I344171, \#I346772, \#I344016 - Text box is now preserved properly while converting a DOCX format document to PDF.
* \#I344316 - The **ArgumentOutOfRangeException** will no longer be thrown while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I342402 - Paragraph is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I344312 - Floating item is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I343806, \#I344038, \#FB29056, \#I342808 - Table is now preserved properly while converting a DOCX format document to PDF.
* \#I343888 - Table and Heading are now preserved properly in tagged PDF while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I342251 - Emoji is now preserved properly while converting a DOCX format to PDF.
* \#I342795 - Table cells are preserved properly while converting a RTF format document to PDF.
* \#I341531, \#I342859 - Image is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I342250, \#I344435 - Table is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I344560 - Page number is now preserved properly while converting a DOCX format document to PDF.
* \#I343474 - Text in group shape is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#F169301 - Strikethrough is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I340593 - Textbox position is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I343477 - Text in frame is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#FB28775 - Checkbox is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
* \#I340817, \#I346057, \#I349564 - Artifacts are now added properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
## PDF

### Features
{:#PDF-Features}
* \#342792 - Provided the support to add deferred signing without PKCS7 encoding.
* \#341462 - Provided support to throw a different exception type for secured PDF documents when loading invalid or without password.
* \#342006 - Provided the support to load the true type font using a file path in the ASP.NET Core platform.
* \#F169343 - Provided the `IDisposable` support for `PdfTiffImage` API.
* Provided the support to flatten form fields without calling the save method.
* Added the support for converting PDF to PDF A2U and A3U.
* Improved 2x performance in PDF to PDF/A conversion.  

### Breaking Changes
{:#PDF-breaking-changes}
* Now, the PDF page orientation will be changed based on the page size provided.

### Bug Fixes
{:#PDF-bug-fixes}
* \#344187 - Index was outside the bounds of the array issue will no longer occurs while converting PDF to PDF/A.
* \#343744 - Null reference exception will no longer occurs while flattening the PDF documents.
* \#343555 - Null reference exception will no longer occurs while sign the PDF document with enable validation appearance.
* \#342787 - Ink annotations are now preserved properly.
* \#342444 - KeyNotFound exception will no longer occurs while flattening PDF documents.
* \#344287 - Now, the exported FDF data is preserved properly.
* \#343003 - ICC color space will be preserved properly when compressing the PDF document.
* \#344637 - Exception will no longer occurs while loading encrypted PDF document.
* \#345332 - PDF document will be decrypted properly while removing password from it.
* \#342792 - Signature will no longer failed when signing PDF document with deferred sign.
* \#344528 - Imported form fields values will be preserved properly on Chrome and other viewers.
* \#343888 - Tag will be added properly while creating table.
* \#344284 - Preservation issue will no longer occurs while modifying the check box field in existing PDF document.
* \#344287 - Symbols will be exported properly while importing/exporting form fields.
* \#343259 - Rubber stamp annotation appearance will be preserved properly.
* \#343593 - Exception will no longer occurs while compressing the existing PDF document.
* \#342500 - PDF document will no longer corrupted, while performing redaction.
* \#342831 - Annotations will be preserved properly when flattening it.
* \#342048 - Null reference exception will no longer occurs while converting word to PDF document.
* \#342244 - Hanging issue will no longer occurs while removing images from the PDF document.
* \#342171 - Now, the file size is optimized, when drawing existing PDF page as template.
* \#341582 - PDF grid will be preserved properly when drawing it to the PDF document.
* \#340465 - Dot notation issue will no longer occurs while exporting PDF document to XML document.
* \#340464, \#340466 - Double quotation mark variants and Apostrophe will be preserved properly when exporting form data to XML or XFDF.
* \#338447 - Line breaks will be preserved properly while repeatedly exporting data to XML.
* \#345250 - Hyperlink bounds for the text web link annotation will be preserved properly.
* \#345128 - Free text annotation will be preserved properly when flattening it.
* \#345127 - Radio button fields are now flattened properly.
* \#344315 - Preservation issue will no longer occurs while flattening annotations.
* \#169343 - PdfTiffImage object is now disposed properly.
* \#168796 - Signature will no longer invalid while enabling LTV on deferred signing.
* \#343928 - Hanging issue will no longer occurs while creating QR barcode.
* \#168850, \#342071, \#345897, \#345898 - Ink annotation control points are now preserved properly.
* \#343246 - PdfStringLayoutResult will be retrieved properly when the text start with space character.
* \#338893 - Text will be preserved properly while drawing rich text using PdfHtmlTextElement API.
* \#346053 - The ink annotation appearance will be preserved properly while setting border width as a float value.
* \#348721 - Enabled the signature validation appearance will be preserved properly in the chrome browser.
* \#348329, \#SF-355512 – The PdfDocumentAnalyzer will show the syntax warning if the page content is empty.
* \#342794, \#343743, \#SF-353407 – The rubber stamp annotation will be preserved properly when flattening.
* \#348614 - Conformance will be passed on the online validator tool when converting the PDF to PDF/A1B.
* \#338451, \#338963 - The list box will be preserved properly when importing form data.
* \#348710 – The PDF page orientation will not be changed while merging PDF documents.
* \#348259 – The null reference exception will no longer occur while modifying the annotation date.
* \#345765, \#SF-352935 – The PDF document’s internal links will be preserved properly when merging it.
* \#347588 - Exception will no longer occur while deferred signing without a public certificate.
* \#347783 – The null reference exception will no longer occur while converting the PDF to PDF/A-3B.
* \#347198 – The check box border style will be preserved properly while flattening it.
* \#346997 - Text will be preserved properly on the signature field.
* \#347343 – The string was not recognized exception will no longer occur when loading a PDF document.
* \#345637 - Document will be preserved properly on the Firebox while compressing it.
* \#346255 – The signature is not auto validated issue will no longer occur while signing PDF documents and free text annotation in the Adobe Reader.
* \#342881 - Form fields changes are not allowed in the Adobe exception will no longer occur while filling the form fields using `ImportXfaData` API.
* Argument out of range exception will no longer occur while accessing the XMP metadata.
* Text box field will be preserved properly after assigning a new value.
* The header and footer content artifact's hierarchical structure is now preserved properly.
* The save message box will be no longer appear on the adobe reader while importing form data.
* The popup annotation appearance will be preserved properly.
* The null reference exception will no longer occur while finding text on an existing PDF document.
## Presentation

### Bug Fixes
{:#Presentation-bug-fixes}

* \#I344849 - The PowerPoint presentation will no longer be corrupted while performing multiple clone and merge with same slide.
* \#I344715 - Hyperlink of SmartArt is now preserved properly while saving the PowerPoint presentation.
* \#I344458 - Row height is now updated properly while adding a new row into the PowerPoint table.
* \#I341233 - Underline is now preserved properly while saving the PowerPoint presentation.
* \#I341320 - Layout slide is now applied properly while adding a new slide into the PowerPoint presentation.
* \#I340149 - Think cell component is now preserved properly while saving the PowerPoint presentation.
* \#I341112 - Picture bullet is now preserved properly while converting a PowerPoint presentation to PDF.
* \#I345622 - Line arrow is now preserved properly while converting a PowerPoint presentation to PDF.
* \#I345617 - Franklin Gothic font is now applied properly while converting a PowerPoint presentation to PDF.
* \#I342671 - Table cell border is now preserved properly while converting a PowerPoint presentation to Image.
* \#I341387 - Character spacing is now applied properly while converting a PowerPoint presentation to PDF.
* \#I341256 - Chart text color is now preserved properly while saving the PowerPoint presentation.
* \#I345728 - Arrowhead is now preserved properly while converting a PowerPoint presentation to PDF.
* \#I345718 - Picture transparency and fill color is now preserved properly while converting a PowerPoint presentation to PDF.
## XlsIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#I341494 - Conditional format without applied range is now preserved properly while resaving the Excel document.
* \#I340032 - Exception thrown while resaving the Excel document having with chart title referred from external range is now resolved.
* \#I340032 - Series color of a chart having tint color is now preserved properly while resaving the Excel document.
* \#I341449 - Chart value axis labels are now rounded off properly while converting chart to image.
* \#I340620 - NullReference exception thrown while accessing the series values from named range is now resolved.
* \#I342141, \#I342694 - Data label font size is now proper while cloning the chart.
* \#I343761 - Default column width is now maintained correctly while parsing the Excel document.
* \#I342426 - Legend entries are now proper while converting chart with multiple series to image.
* \#I342424 - Column clustered chart with date time axis is now rendered properly in chart to image conversion.
* \#I342677 - Bitmap image is now rendered properly in Excel to PDF conversion.
* \#I344139 - OnAction property value of alternate share is now set properly.
* \#I342424 - Column clustered chart with datetime axis type is now rendered properly in the chart to image conversion.
* \#I345199 - Currency value is now set properly in Excel document.
* \#F169945 - Color scale conditional formatting when applied to a discontinuous range in now rendered properly Excel to PDF conversion.
* \#I346162 - Argument exception thrown when shared strings contains an empty XML element is now resolved.
* \#I342424 - Column clustered chart with date time axis type is now rendered properly in the chart to image conversion. 
* \#I344386 - Default properties of chart title is now correct while resaving the Presentation document.
* \#F169691 - Substitute font is now applied properly for Excel header and footer in Excel to PDF conversion.
* \#I345758 - Issue with cell font styles being removed during font substitution in Excel to PDF conversion is now resolved.
* Rich-text is now preserved properly while creating an Excel table is Rich-text range.
* Monochromatic color applied for chart series is now preserved properly while resaving the Excel document.
* SVG image is now preserved properly while add copying the Excel worksheet.
* Picture border edge join is now preserved properly while resaving the Excel document.
* Table striped style is now applied properly based on the strip size.
* Exception thrown for unique formula in creation of Excel document is now resolved.
