---
title: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Weekly Nuget Release Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Weekly Nuget Release Release Notes  
platform: aspnet-core
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="January 18, 2023"  version="v20.4.0.44" %} 

## Common

### Breaking changes

It was announced in 2019 that the Syncfusion ASP.NET Core controls of Essential JavaScript 1 (jQuery-based widgets) are no longer actively developed and users are encouraged to switch to the Syncfusion ASP.NET Core controls of Essential JS 2 library. Despite this, support and bug fixes were provided for the last four years. However, 2022 Volume 4 marked the last release of the Syncfusion ASP.NET Core controls of Essential JS 1 (jQuery-based widgets). We recommend using the Syncfusion ASP.NET Core controls of Essential JS 2, which has been specifically designed to be lightweight and modular. Its size can be further optimized by including only the necessary controls and features for your application. 
For more information, check out the Syncfusion ASP.NET Core controls of Essential JS 2 library's [documentation](https://ej2.syncfusion.com/aspnetcore/documentation/introduction) and [demo](https://ej2.syncfusion.com/aspnetcore/Grid/GridOverview).

The following Syncfusion ASP.NET Core packages was deprecated.
* Syncfusion.EJ
* Syncfusion.EJ.AspNet.Core
* Syncfusion.EJ.Export
* Syncfusion.EJ.Pivot
* Syncfusion.HtmlToPdfConverter.QtWebKit.AspNet
* Syncfusion.Pdf.OCR.AspNet

## DocIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

- `#I424520` - Style is now removed properly after calling `Remove()` method
- `#F179513` - The **ArgumentOutOfRangeException** will no longer be thrown while calling `ExecuteNestedGroup()` method
- `#I426035` - The **NullReferenceException** will no longer be thrown while opening a DOCX format document.
- `#I426508` - Table is now preserved properly while converting a DOCX format document to PDF.
- `#I427184` - Non-breaking space is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
- `#I427183` - Table row is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
- `#I427808` - Line break inside the frame is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.

<style>
#note {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #efd9fd;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px;
}
</style>
<div id="note">
Note : The bug or feature items that do not have a corresponding ID associated with them are internally identified
</div>