---
title: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Weekly Nuget Release Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Weekly Nuget Release Release Notes  
platform: aspnet-core
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core  Release Notes  

## DocIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

- `#I429091` – The header and footer are now preserved properly after calling `UpdateAlternateChunks` API.
- `#I430360` – The **ArgumentOutOfRangeException** will no longer be thrown while converting a Word document to PDF.
- `#I431344` - Hanging issue has been resolved while converting a Word document to PDF.
- `#I432675` - Table border is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
- `#I427132` - Table is now preserved properly while converting a RTF format document to PDF.
- `#I429053` - The **InvalidOperationException** will no longer thrown while resaving a DOCX format document.
- `#I430387` - Formula field is now updated properly after calling `UpdateDocumentFields` API.
- `#I429194` - List number is now preserved properly while converting a DOCX format document to PDF.
- `#I430397` - Hanging issue has been resolved while opening a Strict Open XML document.
- `#I430866` - The **NullReferenceException** will no longer thrown while calling `UpdateWordCount` API.


## Presentation

### Bug Fixes
{:#Presentation-bug-fixes}

- `#I430678` - The **NullReferenceException** will no longer be thrown while parsing an Ole Object of group shape.
- The **NullReferenceException** will no longer be thrown while closing a PowerPoint presentation with empty section.


<style>
#note {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #efd9fd;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px;
}
</style>
<div id="note">
Note : The bug or feature items that do not have a corresponding ID associated with them are internally identified.
</div>