---
title: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Weekly Nuget Release Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Weekly Nuget Release Release Notes  
platform: aspnet-core
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="September 13, 2022"  version="v20.2.0.49" %} 






## DocIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

- `#I398404` - Nested IF field with bookmark is now updated properly while calling a `UpdateDocumentFields` method.
- `#I401643` - Picture is now preserved properly while resaving a DOCX format document.
- `#I390688` - List formatting is now preserved properly while resaving a RTF format document.
- `#I399360` - Symbol is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to HTML.
- `#I399357` - The **ArgumentException** will no longer be thrown while opening a RTF format document.
- `#I398399` - Nested IF field is now updated properly while calling `UpdateDocumentFields` method.
- `#I400616` - Tab leader of underline type is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
- `#I399616` – The **OutOfMemoryException** will no longer be thrown while converting a Word document to PDF.
- `#I401483` - Chart inside text box is now preserved properly while converting  a Word document to PDF.
- Underline for trailing spaces is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
- List number is now preserved properly while resaving a RTF format document.
- Endnote and Footnote are preserved properly while creating a Word document.

## XlsIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#I399982 - Application being hanged while parsing Excel document with empty relation is now resolved.
* \#I398795 - Order of conditional formatting is now maintained properly while copying the worksheet to new Excel workbook.
* \#I400852 - Null reference exception being thrown while parsing chart series category with extension list is now resolved.


