---
title: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Weekly Nuget Release Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core Weekly Nuget Release Release Notes  
platform: aspnet-core
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET Core  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="July 12, 2022"  version="v20.2.0.38" %} 





## DocIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

- `#I383879` - Paragraph spacing is now preserved properly while clone and merging a section into a Word document.
- `#I384139` - Table content is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
- `#I387152`, `I383748` – List number is now properly preserved while converting a Word document to PDF.
- `#I384583` - The paragraph inside a frame is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
- `#I384138` - Tables are now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
- `#I311564` - TOC navigation is now working properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
- `#I379364` - List number is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to HTML.
- `#I385266` - Styles are now removed properly while removing styles from a Word document.
- `#I387605` - Hyphenated text is now preserved properly while converting a Word document to PDF.
-  Sequence field is now updated properly while calling `UpdateDocumentFields()` method.



## pdf

No Changes for this product in this version.

[//]: # "Delete the contents of this file while new content is added."

## Presentation

### Bug Fixes
{:#Presentation-bug-fixes}

- `#I386419` - Alpha value is now applied properly in black color while converting a PowerPoint presentation to PDF.
## XlsIO

No Changes for this product in this version.

[//]: # "Delete the contents of this file while new content is added."

